So if you are somebody who is actually willing to learn system design and you have a lot of system design interviews lined up then on this particular channel we are going to start a brand new series where I along with Ria are going to do a few mock interviews. These mock interviews are going to solely focus on 45 to 60 minute system design round. System design can be very deep as well but in a interview situation you have to be precise. You have to pick up very specific points and you have to take deep dives on whatever questions are asked from the interviewer. So how to maintain that temperament? How you have to go about in a system design round? You'll get absolute clarity in this particular series. Also, if you are somebody who is willing to learn system design and who is looking for a dedicated learning resource around highle design and low-level design around uh different different varied topics from beginner to advanced level that can help you to crack your next system design round then don't forget to check Algoam. On Aloam we have a dedicated system design course on which you are going to get everything required for low-level as well as highle design. It's a hand-on course and it also gives you a lot of clarity around cloud technologies, how you can solve machine coding problems and whatnot. Do check out the link in the description section below and without any further ado, let's start the video. Hi Sankit. Um so let's quickly start your system design round. A couple of details before we actually start. Uh first of all, it's going to be around 45 minutes round. So um we will discuss first for the uh we will have a discussion first for the first 40 minutes and then for the five last five minutes if there are any questions and if you want to deep dive into something more we can discuss that and apart from it uh while you're designing the whole system for whatever problem we pick I'll be asking a couple of clarifying questions in the whole process um so I'll stop you in between asking a couple of questions and if I need some more clarity on your design I'll be doing that as well in your interview. So are you clear? Should we get started? Sure. Yeah, we can definitely get started here. Okay. So what we're going to do is today we are going to design a stock broker. So are you aware of any popular stock brokers in India? Um I guess we we are referring to something like uh grow upstock zeroda or IND money. Absolutely right. So that is what the today's problem is. We have to build a stock broker. Now when I say that um know that a stock broker responsibility just to reiterate is simply to make sure that the transactions and the buying and the selling which is being initiated by the users is being basically uh going as a request to the exchange. Okay. Now exchange it could be n it could be BSC. Now you don't have to specifically build the exchange. you can already assume that there is an exchange that is available to you which can basically take in your orders and if they are successful give you those respons uh responses. So that is already available. You don't have to build that. We're going to focus more on the stock broker part right how internally a application like a grow or zeroda would actually work interacting with the clients as well as the uh stock exchange. Uh does that make sense? Got it. Got it. Um so thanks thanks for the clarification uh um I I believe we can definitely very quickly jot down the functional requirements based on whatever you have actually mentioned here. So technically we want to just focus on designing the stock broker platform right we can assume that APIs for stock exchange is with us stock exchange is given already right we don't have to more or less care about the stock exchange that means like stock exchange mainly also does the order matching and everything so all of that we don't need to care about don't need to care about order matching and all and fulfillment. Okay, cool. And um apart from that uh so um I believe one good functionality to definitely take care for a stock broker platform something like uh grow or upstock is that users you uh like whatever are the end users they should be able to initiate an order uh like to buy something uh and sell something and those orders should be passed on to stock exchange right uh that should be at least a bare minimum thing that um users should be able to place orders buy or sell on the platform. Mhm. And platform forwards it to the exchange. Okay. Correct. Uh one clarification question that I would like to have here is that uh an order uh buy or sell can be of type limit order that means of a specific price. If you want to set that always sell beyond this particular price or below this part buy below this particular price only or it can be a market order as well as far as my knowledge goes with respect to stock platforms. So do we want to keep a support on uh around both like limit order and um I would say market order or we don't need to more or less care about that any any clarification on that aspect yes ideally what we would like is our platform to be able to support both if we would like to buy something at the market price ideally we should be able to do that but if we do have a limit order that should be supported as well I think uh in the API itself we could have some way to um I would say uh keep taken care of. Okay, cool. So, that makes sense. That makes sense. We can definitely keep an eye on that. Um, uh, apart from this, apart from this, u, uh, I believe one good, uh, requirement would be that the user should be able to see the price of the stock as well. Then only they will be able to actually place a buy or sell and like make a decision for that. Uh, so I believe uh, users should be able to see the stock price in real time. Correct. Right. And um uh do you want us to have a functionality where users should be able to see historic price that like maybe a chart system where you we are able to show that okay how the stock has performed for the last 1 hour, 1 day, 7 days, last 1 month something like that do you think? I think we can skip that for now. Uh for the functional requirements I think this look good. Although it would be good to disc if we have time we can discuss a bit about this towards the end. But I think for now this functional requirements look good. Okay, this maybe I can add in a good one. Cool. Uh I believe we have a good set of functional requirements and quite a few one to actually wrap up. Um with that I would like to quickly jump jump up on the non-functional requirements also so that we can start getting some ideas on the system. Um um I believe that uh this uh overall stock brokering platform uh is going to be kind of like a very hybrid platform where whenever the user wants to let's say do the buying or selling I believe that the buying and selling should be kind of like uh done in a very highly consistent manner. Uh like I believe the buy and sell should be highly consistent. Right? When I say highly consistent mean that I'm doing a I would say kind of like a trade-off with consistency and availability with respect to cap theorem that um maybe the user is not able to place an order for a particular stock that would be still okay but it should not be like the money has been deducted they placed a buy order but they don't see that buy order being executed or that buy order is lost. So that's why consistency is something that we should definitely would like to focus on. But on the part of let's say seeing the stock price uh like looking at stock price this part of the system should be kind of like highly available right user should be always able to see the stock price and the stock movements right there might be a chance that okay the data that they are seeing is maybe let's say uh 10 seconds old or let's say 30 seconds old or a minute old and we will be able to push the data once we like once we will be able to push the latest data as soon as we have but they should be able to at least see whatever price uh whatever price has been there for the complete day so that they can at least make a make an idea and make a decision on how the price is actually moving. So I I would say that this stock price part should be highly available and if we can make it as consistent as possible that should be something uh we should try to look upon. Uh do you think this these two are a good consensus to have? Yes, I think that looks good. Can we also focus a little bit about on how many requests can we also expect considering let's say we have a 100 million users? Uh what kind of traffic we can expect on our um stock broker. Okay, assume that uh so I was about to come to this part. So let's do some uh back of the envelope calculation, right? that uh assuming that let's say we have total 100 million users and I'm assuming that let's say 10% is our daily active user 10% DA if I expect that makes our calculation to go to 10 million users per day are going to let's say interact on the platform so we have two main type of request one is going to be let's say actually buying and selling and one is going to be actually looking at the stock price what we can definitely ensure is that looking at the stock price is going to be slightly a bit more traffic heavy side on our platform rather other than buying and selling because a lot of people will be monitoring the stocks but very less odd like uh the number of time they will be placing an order will be slightly less. Okay. So we can say that uh stock price looking part is going to be kind of like read heavy right and uh buying and selling is uh let's say not going to be that read heavy less lesser reads will be there. Okay. So overall you can see the overall the platform looks more like a read heavy platform in a nutshell right so uh considering that we have 10 million daily active users considering that we have 10 million daily active users and assuming that let's say all of these daily active users is looking at our platform so we'll try to uh get the maximum number of request altogether right so let's say that these 10 million users are making per user let's say every user checks price of at least 10 stocks uh let's say maybe 20 times a day right 20 times a day at least like this is kind of like the bare minimum that we are looking at I'll try to calculate the peak load as well later so 10 million users looking at 10 different stocks because people keep that in their uh watch list 20 times a day right this makes our overall uh number of request to um I would say 100 million into 20 that takes it to 2,000 million which is which we can in a better way would we can write it as 100 into 10 ^ 6 that's going to be for a million and then this is going to be 200 into 10 ^ 6 which is going to be approximately two uh 2 into 10^ 9 that is approximately 2 billion requests per day. 2 billion request per day. And uh the peak load, the peak load, we can assume that let's say the peak load is let's say at least 5x of it. So 5x is the peak load. That makes it 10 billion requests per day. And if we want to calculate it say in per second basis then uh in 1 day we have 86,400 second. I'm rounding it off to 10^ 5. So 2 into 10 ^ 9 / 10 ^ 5 this comes out as 2 into 10 raised ^ 4 QPS right this is going to be the QPS during the peak load that we might have to handle right 2 into 10^ 4 QPS is something that we would like to handle I believe this will be the peak load and uh we can say that the number of people like the number of final buys and sells are going to be 10% of it. So 10% uh of the will be the buys and sells. So 10% of it is going to be 2 into 10^ 3 QPS is something that we should definitely try to handle, right? Um is is that a good assumption to actually uh get started with? Yes, that is actually good. We can go ahead. Okay, cool. Uh makes sense. Uh with that with that um uh let's try to uh focus on both the flows one by one and because of the fact that both the flows have different set of requirements maybe we can try to actually design things in a specific way for each one of them. Now one thing is for sure that um we have a dedicated exchange right we don't need to care much about this exchange part uh exchange is going to be something that is going to handle a lot of things for us like matching the order and giving us let's say the order history uh and everything but we we'll see what all things we have to manage we are going to have some end user clients correct right we are going to have some end user clients who are going to actually interact with our platform okay cool now definitely one thing that I would like to add uh let's at least try to get all the functional requirements in place first then we can see how we can scale up the system to uh and complete the pending non-functional requirements as well. So any request that needs to come because it's a financial platform this needs to have very high uh this can have very high risk on in terms of frauds and everything. So we need to have definitely an API gateway in between that is going to ensure that we have all the requests rate limited authenticated any kind of a fraud check or whatever we have to do there should be an API gateway that uh should technically help us with that. Okay. So that is going to be one thing and uh the responsibility is going to be straightforward. any kind of an authentication, any kind of rate limiting and everything should be done through this particular API gateway for any kind of a uh incoming client request. Okay. So that is going to be one component of the system very bare minimum. Now uh talking about the fact that now this client needs to first of all see the user data right sorry the stock data user should be able to see the stock price. This is the first requirement that I'm trying to fulfill. Now the stock price is going to be regulated by the exchange and the exchange is going to technically give us the corresponding stock price. So technically what we can have is we can have a service in between right okay and this is going to be let's say price service. What is the responsibility of this price service? The responsibility of this price service is going to be one thing that it tries to uh accumulate the data from the exchange for the current price of a particular stock and then gives that price stock back stock price back to the corresponding client. Uh so technically this price uh service has to do a communication to the client and there needs to be some way it gets the communication through the to the exch through the exchange as well. So let's see first of all how the communication between this price service and the client is technically going to happen. Now this price service the moment this price service is somehow has the latest data from the exchange about the stock price it needs to send it to the client and there's a good chance that there will be clients who has already opened the page of the stock and they will be expecting the new stock price let's say the stock price goes up and down and whatever charting library on the client side is able to move it all together so I believe uh like a there are a couple of ways in which we can do this communication let's say the client can again and again pull our price service but polling will be very heavy on the price service. We can definitely discard that. Websockets are something that is a good two-way communication because then price service will be able to send the data back to the client. But in websockets generally we use websocket when client also has to send something to the server and server has to send something to the client for a more two-way communication. This doesn't look more two-way communication to us. What client is going to do? Client is going to technically subscribe or let's say open up a stock page and expect the stock tick to come up. So I believe a good way would be that there should be some some sense of server sent events coming up altogether. These uh server sent events server sent events should be there that we can actually uh ensure that the price service is actually sending to the client through this API gateway in order to ensure uh whenever a new stock tick is there this server sentiment sends the data back. Now u there are a couple of sorry to interrupt you in between uh I just had like a couple of questions um you mentioned that you'll go ahead with server send events over here and you'll not be going ahead with the um I would say the websockets approach um do you think there are any substantial disadvantages of using websockets like is there a reason why websockets won't fit in this scenario at all and server sense events are something which is you know more preferable like why do you think server sentiments are very suiting for this particular scenario. Uh see like um to be very honest both could have worked but I believe is first reason why I would not like to go with websocket is that websocket as a um I would say overall connection platform is mainly to ensure or facilitate that when there is a two-way communication. This doesn't look like a two-way communication. So first thing is websocket might be an overkill. Second thing is that um let's say the client has opened two three stocks uh on let's say the platform let's say we are uh giving them a way that they can add multiple stocks and open the charts parallelly assuming for a moment then for every chart if let's say for everything uh for every kind of a communication that has to be driven from the server if we will maintain a websocket connection then the client has to maintain a lot of websocket connection through our uh to our server This puts an overhead on the client side and our client application might be overwhelmed with the number of uh open websocket connection. So I believe the number of open websocket connection should be kept as less as possible uh for performance uh I I would say to ensuring to ensure the performance and as of now we don't see a requirement for websocket connection because the client doesn't have to send something to the um I would say server maybe the only thing the client has to do is maybe uh because the server sent event also has to set up a persistent connection uh and on top of that persistent connection the SSC happens so while setting up the persistent connection they can just set up that okay which stock symbol they want the latest price for and that is it the persistent connection can happen and the data can come back it's just that the client doesn't have to send anything else after the connection has been set up to receive the price hence I believe websocket is something that we can definitely avoid as of now okay and um so whenever a person or a client basically opens the stock broker app you can expect two types of clients to actually be for number one is going to be somebody who who's basically trying to look at the stock price for the very first thing in the day, right? So they're opening the app probably after a day. All right? Or probably after 2 three days. And the second type of client who basically has is a recurring user, right? Who's constantly on the stock page and consistently trying to see the updation of the price or if something has changed or not. So when you talk about SSE, what kind of scenario are we really dealing with over here? Okay. So for now uh for now SSE is going to technically work for let's say uh those clients which are let's say already on the page like kind of like the your client number two which are already on the page they were uh already looking at the stock price and through SSE the stock price updates are going to come up for that particular day for the first client let's say the stock uh session has opened at 9:15 and uh it's as of now let's say 11:00 a.m. morning and now somebody like client one opens a page. So they don't just need the latest stock tick update they also need the the complete day data that how the stock has performed for that particular day. So we are going to add the requirement like we are going to add the setup for this this flow as well that they are able to see the slightly a bit slight bit of history for that particular day of that particular stock and once they are on the page then the SSE should be established and SSE is going to send send them the latest stock tick altogether. So that is something that we have to uh that we are yet to establish for client number one. Does that answer your question? Yes, you can go ahead. Cool. Now talking about the two-way communication between the price service uh for the price service this is going to be on the client side but on the server side now again price service can maybe do a polling to the exchange but exchanges are very um I would say high exchanges are platforms which are already having a high amount of load and they have to do a lot of processing. So polling the exchange again and again for a price update is again uh not going to be the best thing to go for. Ideally what should technically happen is that the exchange should also send us the events for the stock ticks that our price service should try to subscribe. Let's say there are for example I believe on n there are 5,000 symbols altogether. So what this price service should do is this price service should subscribe uh uh kind of like an API from the exchange which is again going to be driven by server sent events right that again we do not need to again and again bombard anything to the exchange once this connection has been established between our price service and the exchange the exchange can keep on sending us the corresponding set of price updates altogether right so uh that is going to be something that we should have and again this puts slightly a lesser amount of load on the exchange because then the exchange will not have to accept any request and process the request. Whenever there is a stock price update because of the buys and sell orders and the volume then the update can be um sent to the price service and generally for platforms like grow zeroda they have to subscribe and let's say pay some good amount of money to this particular exchange in order to subscribe to these events. This should be not a very um I would say complex affair for these. Uh the only thing is that with this particular infrastructure we will be able to facilitate the new incoming stock tics for the existing stock like let's say one and a half hours of the complete trading day is gone. Uh and let's say client number one as you mentioned is going to now open up the page. So they want to at least see some price updates altogether. So what we can actually do is what we can actually do is that instead of price so we can use single responsibility principle to ensure that the price service is only responsible for showing all the prices to the client and because exchange is more or less kind of like an outer world uh I would say uh system what we can have is we can have um I would say let's call this particular service as a exchange change uh and I would say gateway processor kind of like this. What is the responsibility of this exchange gateway processor? There are going to be a couple of responsibilities. First, because this exchange is going to be on the outer world, this is uh outside of our let's say private network altogether. So, this will be responsible for doing any external communication through the exchange. Any kind of an external communication should be facilitated by this particular exchange processor. Now what we can do is the exchange processor is going to actually receive all the server sent events from the stock exchange like NSE, BSE whatever we have and then because this has already subscribed and this is again and again receiving all of the data for us. What we can have is we can have kind of like a storage in between which is going to technically ensure we can have a storage in between that uh this exchange uh processor can actually send the data to like for example 9:15 the trading session started. So exchange is going to start sending us the updated stock tick. This exchange gateway processor is going to technically store that data inside this storage algether. And let's say somebody like client one actually comes up right the client one is going to make a request that okay show me the last one and a half hour stock price and the latest stock ticks. So for sending the last one and a half hour stock price the price service is going to fetch the data from this storage and apart from this there should be a direct communication between the exchange gateway processor and price service. uh this can be done uh maybe via some API call right that um now the latest price update that is being fetched from the exchange in the exchange gateway processor is going to be sent to the price service and the price service is going to be using SSC to facilitate to both of the corresponding clients. Okay. So that is going to be one way and uh this storage is again going to help us that whatever historic price update has happened throughout the day the client own is able to at least see that fetch that thing and all the latest price updates are going to come up through this particular API. Um um I would like to maybe um uh add some API contracts for uh this particular interaction. But before I add some API contracts any particular question that you have here? Yes. Can you talk a bit more about what kind of storage you're going to opt for? That is question number one. And question number two would be how would you really store the data? Um like in what structure are you really going to store the data in this storage? Okay. Uh so for this storage I believe um we would like this storage to be in a way that all the stock ticks for a particular time stamp like at what particular time stamp and what particular stock symbol we are actually looking at for that we want to store the stock prices and although it's not our requirement but we had a good to have requirement of old price history charts and everything as well. So if we can have this storage as let's say something like a time series DB right kind of like a time series DB uh maybe something like time scale uh right that can be useful for us because we would like to actually see that uh price for the last 1 and a half hour or the last particular day whatever has been there and apart from that maybe we can uh just to ensure that okay the storage is not overwhelmed because some stocks have a very high volume of um I would say buys and sells. So maybe this particular storage we can shard based on let's say the stock symbols that those stock symbols which have extremely huge amount of trading volume maybe the top 50 or top 100 on nifty kind of like that are in one shard and those which are having lesser amount of volume are on the separate chart. So starting strategy we can think about but I believe a good time series DB uh we can actually opt in here for the storage and uh how would you really store the data can you take an example for uh any particular stock let's say Apple and let's say a price fluctuation that has happened for that particular stock so let's say assuming let's say something like Apple or something like let's say infy right uh so what we can actually have is that we can have a table so for for example as far as I know uh time scale is based on top of postgress. So we can have uh a table prepared that is going to be let's say a price uh history table and uh inside this table whenever a price update is going to actually come up we can actually mention the time uh stamp of when the price update has come up and what price value we have actually got right uh for one particular symbol right and we can bucket bucket it uh it accordingly right uh We can have if again it's a good to have requirement but if you want to have let's say data for separate date we can have the bucketing done let's say on every 3 hours or every day kind of a thing as well. So the time stamp and whatever price value you have we can have that and maybe we can index it with respect to the time stamp and whenever the user actually wants we can show it with respect to the in order of the right time stamps like let's say from 9:15 then let's say next next tick came up in 9:17 and so on. So, however the price fluctuates based on that we can uh send the data to the uh price service and then eventually to the client. Got it. Okay. Yeah, let's go ahead. Uh so that is there and uh looking at the API contract let's say uh from the uh from all of this. So in order to subscribe to this let me maybe write it here. So the API should technically look like this that we should have let's say a um get request. Can you scroll up a bit, Sankit? I think it's not visible with your video. Like you can scroll down a bit. It's being hidden by your video. Okay, cool. I guess now it's it must be visible. Uh so it should be a get request. Uh one second let let's not write it here. Let me write it here. Maybe we can write it in the middle. That is very clear or this is fine as well. So it should be a get request and in the get request it should be to something like / API/v1 / stock uh price okay and uh in the query params maybe we can send a symbol something like let's say infy right and we should be able to see all the stock price history for infosys right and also the moment we see the stock price history this should also help us to subscribe to that particular stock and any latest stock price update should also be sent via the SSE altogether. Uh this is going to be one API that we can have in order to see the corresponding price history. If we want to have the filters and everything that let's say for last one day or something. So we can have u I would say time range uh like we can have a parameter time range start uh or or let's say we can just have a parameter time range is equals to something like 1 day or 1 month uh 1 month or let's say uh 1 hour something like this these kind of time range values we can pass if we want bucketed data to be sent from our price service for historic chart viewing this is going to be the API that we can have. Now talking about this now um our one requirement is fulfilled that we are able to see the stock price and good to have requirement is also there. Now we should be able to uh place the orders. Now I believe the order placing uh responsibility should not go to the price service again because of separation of concerns and single responsibility principle and I believe um we also want to do a couple of things that let's say whenever an order comes up we also would like to maintain an order history on our end so that we do not have to again and again patch in things from the exchange and again again request that okay uh what was the last 30 orders for this particular user this will be a very expensive API to the exchange so uh what we can have is uh let's say we can have a separate mechanism built in And we can maybe call it as something like a order management service. Sorry. Uh again horizontally scaled. Uh this is going to be an MS. What MS is going to ensure is that any kind of a buy or sell order call actually comes up from our client that is going to be technically entertained by uh MS. Now MS is going to do a couple of things. First whenever a buy order actually buy or sell whatever kind of like some order comes up uh what it technically should try to do is it should try to store that in a separate storage here right and uh there should be a separate storage coming up here which is going to be the order DB right this is going to be the order DB right now this order DB uh why we are maintaining an order again as I mentioned that whenever we want to let's say get the order history of this particular user we can try to fetch that from the order DB altogether right we can get it from the order DB allgether exchange uh but sit whenever you pass on a request to the exchange the exchange also maintains uh you know what order has basically reached them why do you feel the need to have that information replicated in order DB as well when exchange already has that information there are a couple of reasons first during the trading times like let's say for example in India trade times is from 9:50 15 let's say 9:00 p.m. 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. During the trade times the exchange is already bombarded with a lot of request and for every request most probably we have to pay the exchange as well. So we would like to keep the number of request uh coming up coming back from the exchange as less as possible. Second thing we are maintaining this order DB to also see a lot of historic data. Maybe we can have some kind of like a OLAP system uh let's say uh build or let's say some analytic platform built on top of this where we can actually see what what has been the user um I would say history or what has been the user um interaction pro profile any kind of analytics we have to do for those analytics purpose also we would like to maintain some data on our end whenever we have to see let's say user wants to see their uh orders they are able to see slightly bit more faster rather than us turning around from the exchange change. So this is also going to help us apart from that for any kind of a recon uh that means reconciliation uh later let's say if uh any kind of uh um maybe security or privacy aspect comes up then we can also recon the part that okay this particular order at this point of time was actually recorded on our platform. So a lot of uh benefits we will get to store this in our order DB and again uh this will decrease the amount of load also on the corresponding exchange. Okay. And uh talking about order DB uh like I believe the order DB's nature should be we should be able to support good asset asset compliance because we don't want because whenever somebody places an order there might be a lot of operations going on. So either all of those operations should work or none should work. So I believe a good asset compliant order uh database should be there and something like let's say PGSQL or my some some RDBMS u maybe uh should be good here. uh we can have uh let's say uh AWS RDS with using which we can deploy an RDBMS which can take all the order data altogether. Now talking about this order DB, whenever a new order is going to come up, this new order is going to be received at the MS. OMS is going to forward this order to the order DB. And for this order, uh the the data structure is going to look something like this that for each order we are going to have uh a unique ID that is order ID as a primary key. Right? We are going to have let's say the user ID who has actually placed the order. We are going to have the symbol the stock symbol for which we have placed the order. maybe the time stamp when the order was placed and we should have a status of the order that whether the order is in a placed state, pending state, fulfilled state, cancelled state and so on. Initially the status can be pending. So this should be probably some kind of like an enum. Now apart from all of this uh uh there should be one extra property that we are going to have that is an um I would say exchange ID. Exchange order ID. What is this exchange order ID? Now because exchange also maintains a database on their end. So let's say once uh our order management service is going to technically send the order data to the corresponding exchange exchange is also going to store that on their end and there is going to be a unique identifier for that particular order on the exchange side as well. So later for any kind of a reconciliation the exchange will not be aware because this platform is let's say grow similar to grow there are other platform like upto zeroda and so on. So exchange will only deal with the unique order ID that exchange has prepared. All of these other platforms depending on what are their internal implementations have to uh I would say moderate things on top of it. So this order ID that I have mentioned here, this is our own database's primary key ID. This exchange order ID is going to be the unique ID that is going to be given to us by the exchange. So initially this exchange order ID is going to be null. Why? because as of now we have received the order and we are making an order entry inside the order database. Once this order entry has been added in the corresponding order database, what we can try to actually do is after this we can have let's say um streaming system in between because again we do not want to directly bombard all the orders to the exchange because exchange is already overloaded. So we should make sure that we are receiving the order and once the order has been fulfilled we can show the status update to the user. So there can be some streaming platform like something like let's say Kafka. So what after this the order DB should technically try to do is that it should um uh sorry MS should try to do is this should add the order to Kafka and then this exchange gateway processor what it can do is this can have one more responsibility. We can have a separate service for it as well or maybe because this is already our external uh system that is this is a system that is interacting with everything external. So what this can do is it can take one by one all of the orders and it can try to put the orders in place to the exchange right and once it places the order to the exchange exchange is going to technically give back an uh corresponding external order ID and that external order ID should be then updated to our order database. Right? That should be technically the flow and again even the exchange can take up some time to process the order. So if we have to uh let's say uh once the order has been updated again the exchange can send us the update about that order through maybe an SSE or maybe we can have uh like um maybe some kind of again maybe we can pull the exchange to get the order status update that okay has the order been done or not or maybe exchange can send it us through SSE but order matching can take up a lot of time some sometimes because let's say uh there's an upper circuit during an upper circuit if you will try to buy more nobody's selling So that buy order might take maybe an hour to complete as well. So instead of using something like SSC or polling, I believe exchange should be uh given some kind of like a web hook to our exchange gateway processor that whenever they have an order update, they can call this particular web hook and this web hook will update the order status inside the order DB. This is going to ensure that um uh like let's say we are not polling and even for SSE we do we have to maintain let's say a persistent connection we can avoid that persistent connection whenever exchange has that uh order update exchange can actually give us the corresponding order update through a web hook. So that is one way that we can identify the update of the order and this should be the structure of the order DB uh algether uh let me see if anything else needs to be done and let's say how the API should look like. So this API should be let's say post request to / API/v1 / order right and in the request body we are going to send the symbol of the order right we are going to send the order type that whether it's a limit order uh sorry first of all order type that it's a buy order or sell order and then I would say one more uh type property can be there which will be let's say limit or uh let's say market price whatever is going to be if in case it's a limit order then we also need to send a that at what price we want to send uh let's say this particular limit order and in case it's a market price then this price property can be uh null as well right um apart from that um I believe um ex exchange might be expecting a couple of things for the users as well but the user ID and everything we can send separately in the header to ensure whatever authentication mechanism we have with the exchange so this should be more or less our post API to actually uh create the order altogether together and uh if let's say user want to see their order status so here I think in the post API we can also add the time stamp like uh at what time we can have a time stamp we can have a time stamp of our platform that when we have received the order but I believe it can be a conflicting opinion that uh maybe the because exchange when the exchange receives that order the time stamp on exchange side might be different so maybe in the response uh like for the response of this post API exchange can give us a time stamp that when they have received the uh order and we can maybe play around with that time stamp. I believe our time stamp is not going to matter a lot with the for the corresponding uh exchange. Uh but again it it will highly depend on what kind of an API exchange is exposing to us. It's an external government author authority. If they expect us to send an time stamp, we can maybe definitely add that. But I believe um it depends on what contract we do set up with the corresponding exchange. Uh I believe because there will be a couple of more things as well. For example, I believe every exchange is going to give us some kind of like API key, a unique identifier for our platform. So to uh authenticate that okay, we are a properly registered platform on the exchange and so on. So this depends on what kind of like uh contract we have with the exchange I believe. Okay. And uh another question is so sometimes what happens in a stock broker is that a client tries to place the order and um here in your case it will pass through MS and then it will be passed to the exchange and let's say it's a limit order I want to buy at a certain price right but that order never really gets processed okay and it will stay in our system. So what your current design does is that if there's an order that's in a pending state uh it was accepted by the exchange but eventually it never got uh placed. How do you want to deal with that data? Will it just sit in the RDBMS like uh because it's in the it's going to be in the pending state forever and uh how how how are you going to design that part and take care of Exchange is going to call us whenever they have an update. If let's say we want to ensure that we do not wait for this exchange webbook maybe we can have a background process going on that uh maybe in a batch of orders takes an update from the exchange that okay these were the orders placed in the last 5 minutes what are the update for these orders there can be a batch call that we can do with an exchange with a separate service which is again and again doing a recon with uh exchange uh but again this will add uh more API calls that we are going to make to the corresponding exchange I believe. But what if the order never gets placed particular part? Uh so so sorry. Uh so I was saying that this exchange order ID is going to be something that is going to help us. If the order has been received by the exchange, we can have a contract between them and us that if we have received an exchange order ID, then the order has been accepted by the exchange. In case we do not have a exchange order ID, what we can use is we can use our streaming platform that okay the order that was actually uh picked up by the gateway processor and sent to the exchange we have not received an exchange order ID for that. So that order we can do a retry for a couple of times and let's say after a four or five retries but that doesn't work then we can add that particular order to a dead letter queue and maybe with a manual intervention or let's say again a separate process we can retry those dead letter cues and or dead letter q orders or we can see what what went wrong with that particular order. So there can be a mechanism for that but again some retry uh because of Kafka we can have those retries available and using this exchange order ID we will be able to ensure that whether the exchange has accepted our order or not if the exchange has accepted our order it's now on the exchange that when they fulfill the order I believe that would be something that we can go for what do you think okay yeah that sounds good I have one last question and then if you have any closing remarks for your design you can uh maybe you know discuss that with me so if you will see in your designed for price service and exchange gateway processor. There could be situations where you know uh the price of the stock is ex I would say changing quite frequently right and with that there's only not one stock price there could be multiple stock price and that could put a lot of load on your price service right and it could be bombarded with a lot of uh price changes uh do you think having a simple API which is just you know sending the data updates would be very optimized in this scenario yeah so uh I was about to take up that because what I see is that we have most of the functional requirements uh already done. Uh I was about to come to the non-functional requirement that uh let's see whether the system is able to scale for this much amount of load or not. So uh I would like to take up all of that one by one. So again because of the fact that we wanted to ensure buy and sell is high consistent so we have this consistent uh um I would say a more transactional compliant DBMS altogether. Now for making sure that we are able to handle this much amount of scale. I believe we need to do uh optimization on multiple levels. The first level of optimization definitely you see that you are saying right that we are bombarding this API uh again and again uh to the price service and exchange processor now has a lot of uh things to do as well. So instead of this what we can maybe try to do is again we could have a streaming platform in between uh using which this exchange gateway processor can send that data to the streaming platform and price service can subscribe to it. But the problem would be again this is definitely a good design not too bad I believe based on the scale that we have because um if let's say the streaming platform is Kafka in 1 second we will be able to easily handle 10^ 5 events altogether and we have uh like let's say definitely lesser than that uh kind of like uh request we are handling but the problem is that price service has to again and again go and pull the corresponding Kafka Q and like kind of like consume it. It's more like a pull model uh from the streaming platform. What it would be better is that uh instead of a pull model we have a push kind of like a model that we have a pushbased mechanism and for that maybe something like a radius realtime popupsub uh can actually help us that whenever we have an update on the price that price update goes to the radius realtime popups and radius realtime popsub pushes it to the price service. So it will be all in all a push mechanism coming up here and we do not have to bombard our price service uh directly altogether. That is one thing. Second thing is that uh again it's not just that we have to handle these many requests. We need to keep the latency as low as possible. So a good strategy in stock broker platforms is that that a lot of stock broker platform even do actually as well that the infrastructure for this complete infrastructure for our stock broker platform this complete infrastructure can be actually placed in the same data center or whatever infrastructure this exchanges like for example let's say there's a dedicated uh data center in a particular region where n or bsc has deployed their servers we can try to keep our servers also in the same data center and maybe try to have a contract in a way that we have uh maybe as much as possible more wired connection directly to the servers. What this is going to ensure is that our overall turnaround time is going to be very less. latency is going to be very less and we will be having much faster order fulfillment and much more faster um I would say um data flowing us through us and uh one more thing is that even if we are not able to let's say get our servers in the same data center at least we should try to keep in the same region because there's a good chance that the majority of the load of the stock buying and selling is going to come up from one particular let's say country's region as well right so that is going to be one thing apart from this apart from this I believe there should be dedicated provisions. There should be dedicated servers provisioned for uh let's say um I would say hedge funds and there should be dedicated servers provisioned for bigger platforms like fund fund fund platforms which buys and sells in very high volume rather than the normal retail investors. So I believe there should be dedicated servers pre-provisioned in a warm as like a warm state for those kind of hedge funds because whenever their request is going to come up their request is going to be in bulk very high value and uh we need to ensure everything is for done for them. So this horizontally scaled mechanism we might have want to have a hybrid strategy here for both of these servers that we cannot just rely on autoscaling. We would like to have pre-provisioned servers and sometimes we can also do one thing that let's say once we because let's say sometimes what can happen is that one symbol is having very high trading volume. So a lot of traffic of one particular symbol can be redirected to one or two dedicated servers. So even the load balancing mechanism we might want to keep hybrid uh that okay instead of just let's say just equally distributing all of the load uh all the stock data for one particular high volume stock is going through one price server and that server is let's say maybe a extra-l large instance on EC2 that is able to take more load. So I believe a good amount of hybrid strategies should be there in order to identify how the load distribution should technically work. And uh talking about um yep again uh because uh here as well in the order DB for our uh order DB here if you want to ensure that okay we are able to see past history of orders we should uh try to do a couple of optimizations here. First of all, we should try to shard the DB based on order ID that uh or user ID that all the U one user orders are going to one shard that should be there and every shard maybe we can try to index with respect to the time stamp so that we are able to get let's say the last 30 orders and last 40 orders altogether. So I believe good sharding strategy should be done here as well and in the time series storage uh I believe here as well. So yeah uh those are some more optimizations that I'm able to directly think of. Okay, Sank I think we are out of time. Also, just one last question and maybe just try to answer it in a few lines only. Uh that um you let's say or your stock broker platform is very popular, right? And what happen what is actually happening is that a lot of the traffic and a lot of I would say lot of traffic in a very short amount of time is just coming from your stock broker itself. Are you going to how are you going to limit the ordering? Is that something you will take care of or is that something the exchange should take care of in case of a very high surge number of orders from a particular stock broker that has been built by you and how would that work? Uh so again multiple things can be done. Uh for example I believe the exchange might be already doing a bunch of things around the rate limiting on their aspect first. Second, this exchange gateway processor that we have, we can have dedicated rules done on this exchange gateway processor that let's say when they are because if you see the orders that we are submitting, the orders are coming to MS from MS, we are putting it into a streaming platform and this exchange gateway processor is one by one picking up the order or let's say number of whatever number of instances we have based on that we'll be able to pick up the order. So, we can try to tune in this platform in order to ensure that we do not bombard our exchange with a lot of order requests. That's why this streaming platform is going to help us doing put a lot of good amount of back pressure. So that is going to be there. Apart from that if we see a surge of um let's say price history uh kind of like data then again because of this storage we can try to at least show something to the user and we do not want it to be highly consistent. So we can try to limit the amount of requests that we are sending uh to the exchange for subscribing to let's say the stocks. We can also ensure that uh we have high priority obtained for some particular symbols. Let's say the top symbols on large cap, midcap, small cap and let's say those are going to be something that we cannot uh uh get very stale data on. But there are some symbols for which even we are getting some scale data. We are okay with that. So I believe this uh this mechanism that we have in place should be able to handle a lot of things uh for limiting up our data to the exchange and we can have rules applied for the exchange gateway processor that maybe uh because what I can see is that maximum amount of surge on these kind of brokerage platforms are going to come up at two times one when the market session starts and when the market session is about to end. So we can have dedicated uh server provisioning done for that particular amount of time that okay that we are going to see a high amount of order load and at least we are we can start accepting the order but those order can be processed by the exchange later. So because of this asynchronous mechanism we will be able to limit the amount of orders I believe that would be again one one good way to think of think of okay I think we're done. Thank you so much uh for this design. I think it looks good and um thank you for interview. Cool. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks. Yeah. Thank you for your time.