Hey, Jonathan. How are you doing?
>> I'm doing well today. I'm looking forward to our interview.
>> Awesome. Uh, sure. Let's get started then. My name is Pan. I'm going to be interviewing you today. Um, is this kind of talk?
>> Now's a great time.
>> Awesome. All right. Here's what we would do. I'll we'll go through a round of introductions and then I'll ask about uh some of your technical projects that you've done in the past and then we'll just talk about uh certain aspects of it.
>> All right. Sure.
>> All right. So, my name is Prasana. Um I like to describe me from not my LinkedIn profile. I'm a a very curious human. I love learning new things and uh just understand how the world works and trying to make it a little more kind of while I'm there. Um professionally uh I'm an engineer, a software engineer. Currently I I wear multiple hats. I have a day job. I work at Netflix as a software engineer who focuses on understanding how our apps are working for our users. I managed teams. I built teams before that at le similar working on the performance of LinkedIn's applications. Outside of that, I work with multiple nonprofit organizations. I sit on the boards of some of them as of trustees to see how we can leverage technology for social good. Also, I'm on the standards committees of I2P working groups to create better standards for how we use technology, especially AI uh just to make our world better for everyone.
>> Wow. No, that that's fantastic. I love that. Hi, I'm I'm Jonathan. I'm a senior back engineer. I've been an engineer for about seven years at this point, working from finance to startups and most recently at the uh I'm a team lead there. So I've I'm leading a team of about four people, two backend engineers, two DevOps engineers. Uh but outside of that, I think we do have some common interest. I really like to support people in technology, people who are trying to grow and learn. So I've led mentorship programs in the past, practice interviews, resume reviews, things like that. And besides that, I do like to do some community gardening. So, I volunteer at the community garden that's actually in my neighborhood. Um, so, you know, helping around the garden, weeding, all types of stuff. I get a lot of I don't know what the right word is, but it it feels good.
>> It sure does. It always feels good to give back. All right, let's get started. So, let's talk about something that you're proud of. uh pick any technical project that you've done uh recently or maybe in the last couple years
>> that you're really proud of and you're okay sharing with me today.
>> Sure. So one project that I'm really proud of from being on the we have a micros service architecture. So we have our uh web client where people fill in the forms, click the buttons. We have our main API which stores that information uh records some information and we also have a few other services. The important one that I worked on is the submission micros service which is responsible for taking that data that someone was given and sending it to for them to process. The reason I'm so proud of this project is because of the timeline which was really tight and uh a lot of the uh systems that I introduced there. I joined uh at a time when we were really close to launching. I joined about two months before we were supposed to go public and we were in a rush to productionize everything. We have the systems working and acting but we have to make sure that there isn't any issue right we're working with really important information are really critical and you don't want to make a mistake. So here's what I did to productionize the system. Uh we had a few things that we wanted to make sure it worked. One, we want to make sure our system can recover if something goes wrong. You don't want to lose someone's data. Uh two, we want to make sure that we don't overwhelm the downstream APIs that we interact with, right? We have the information. We have to send it out to the IRS and we don't want to overload the system or hit rate limits. And the uh final thing that the final thing that that we did uh the final thing that I did after working on resilience, working on uh handling downstream issues uh was performance. So here's what I did for those things. One, for recovery, there's a few things. Uh one, I wanted to make sure that we store the data in a temporary area. So we read that information from a queue. We temporarily store it. Um we temporarily store it in object storage, right? That means if something goes down, we still have it available for us. To talk about handling downstream API outages, there's a few things that we did there. Uh, one is introducing what we call online offline mode, but it's more or less like a circuit breaker pattern, which basically means we're processing, we're processing, if we get an error, we want to hold off on sending any more requests to that downstream system and then make sure that we periodically ping it to see is this thing still up. Uh, and then another way we we tried to handle that, the other way we wanted to make sure we weren't overwhelming the API was batching up our request. So instead of sending 100 requests with one return, we want to make sure that we send 100 returns in a single request. And batching those up is also one way to uh avoid overwhelming the API with tons and tons of requests. uh and ultimately we were really ultimately the changes that I made helped uh ensure that we were able to support all the at the end of filing season we were able to successfully uh file over 140,000 returns and even across downstream outages or you know restarts emergency deploys we didn't lose any information.
>> That sounds like a really cool service. I'm sure I probably used your service too. five mile that's that's so cool. Um you hit close to home and talked about performance and resilience but um we'll talk more about that.
>> I want to understand like what was your role going into the project? You mentioned you two months u out from delivery. What was the state of the system when you joined and what did you specifically contribute to it?
>> Absolutely. So when I joined we had we had a system we had a system that was able to interact with the downstream APIs right which is is obviously table stakes but here are the things that I introduced one was the system of batching right so instead of just reading message from the queue and sending them to the downstream API I introduced batching so that uh when those messages come in we're going to cue them up into batches of 100 for example and once we fill that bucket up we're going to send those we're going to send that information down to the API. Uh the other thing that I that I implemented was that offline mode, that circuit breaker that I mentioned. So the main idea there is that as we're processing, we might occasionally get errors, right? Uh the a the API might say, "Hey, we're down. Hey, there was an issue processing things." So I was responsible for implementing the system that said, "Okay, we're going to pause our processing and we're just going to go into an offline mode where we'll periodically ping the API to make sure that it's back up. And likewise, I was also responsible for some of the error handling there. So you have a situation where the API was down. We're holding off on we're holding off on submitting those returns because we want to make sure things are working. So when it comes back up, implemented that error handling system to pick up any stuff that should have gone out to the API but didn't because we were waiting for it to be online.
>> Pretty cool. Uh can you talk a little bit more about um the API design itself? like how did you let's talk about the offline system that you designed and implemented
>> what were what were the API constructs like what were the agreements uh and how did you think about coming up with those contracts
>> sure so for the offline mode there's a few things that we have to take into consideration uh I'll talk about two parts of it and we can go we can go into more depth as needed uh one part of that is we're still taking in those returns, right? We have a microser architecture. We're using cues as we're using cues to decouple those applications. So, we're still reading in messages from our queue which tell us this is the this is the information we want to send down and then we also have that downstream API that says, you know, that sends us that we send uh that information and we might get an acknowledgement back. So, let's talk about the first part for supporting that offline mode. Uh the first part of that like I mentioned was what I c was what I mentioned where we're storing that information in batches. So the first part of that was making sure that even if we know the API is down we're still uh pulling in that information and putting it in temporary storage. So for that I used uh S3 to pull that information to to temporarily store that information. In terms of the circuit breaker pattern specifically here's what we would do when you submit that information to the API. The API will give you an acknowled will give you two things. One, it will either give you an acknowledgement. Hey, we received the information or it might give you an error response and the IRS provides uh a bunch of docs about what those different error codes mean. So, we were looking for very specific error codes that tell us, hey, we weren't able to process this because there was an issue downstream. So, the first thing we do is say there was an error downstream. Uh let's there was an the first thing we did for that first thing that I did for that was sorry when we when I send that information down to the API and I get that particular error code uh I kicked off I won't say a class but a piece of logic that basically says we got I got this error code and now I want to turn off I want to turn off submissions to that uh API. So at that point the main thing that I turned off was just that submission part. we had an internal queueing system within the service and what that just means is we'll do all the pre-processing but we're just going to hold off. The other final part of that that I mentioned is that ping that uh that ping to the API. So we have a background job that when our off when the offline mode is enabled we had I set a configurable uh number of minutes that we would wait to ping the API again. So I don't remember the exact number. It might have been three minutes, five minutes, something to that effect. And once we finally get a positive response, I enable our system to continue processing those submissions and sending them to the API. All right. Um, so just to understand like where your map service is in the entire flow. Is it the first service that when user uploads does it go to your service first or are there other services before they call into you?
>> Uh there's one service before it calls into me. So our architecture is we have a web client that someone interacts with. We have a traditional API, right? someone will be filling out their form on the UI. They might be clicking buttons, whatever the case may be. When they're finally ready to say, I want to you click submit. At that point, a request goes to the API, does some pre-processing, and then it puts a message on a message queue. We used put it on an SQSQ and then my application is reading messages off of the queue doing a bit of processing based on some requirements and then sending it directly to the API that does the actual processing. There's a few other downstream services as well, you know, to make sure was rejected to send emails out. There's a few other pieces, but my part was that second step. You hit submit, a message goes on the queue. My service reads that message from the queue, does some pre-processing and submits it to that API.
>> All right. Okay. Now that makes more sense. Thank you. Um one question u maybe quickly on the technical side. Um for for what was the was there a time criticality or an SLA that your service had to meet like have to respond within so many seconds something like that or was that not time critical?
>> Mhm. In this case, we didn't have a hard we didn't have a hard SLA for my specific service, but as an as a product, we wanted to make sure that someone got a response within within an hour. The reason I mentioned that is because API itself was also asynchronous, right? When I submit it, it doesn't say this thing was accepted or rejected immediately. It it gives me an acknowledgement.
>> So, it says we've received it. We acknowledge that. And once we have that acknowledgement, we can later use that ID they give to say was this accepted, was this rejected. I don't know that they publish any specific any specific numbers on how that API performs, but we make sure to store that information so that we can later check at at some regular cadence. Hey, did you have you processed this finally after you gave us this acknowledgement?
>> Cool. Did you have to while you were implementing and designing this stuff, did you have to make any architectural decisions? Um, and if so, like can you walk me through how you made those decisions?
>> Certainly. So, one decision that one decision that we had to decide between or one decision that I had to decide between was where to store this intermediate information. one one option was to just take advantage of S3 and just use that for uh keeping track of what what returns still need to be processed as well as storing that information temporarily. The other option was that I could do a split approach where I use a database instead to handle that batching. What I mean by that is uh one common one common pattern that you might see if you're processing things in batches with a relational database is I might have a database table that doesn't store all the information. It'll just it'll just store a URL that references where the information is right and you can essentially treat your database as a queue and have multiple different instances that kind of read block a couple of rows process them and send it around. The other option was instead of using that database to just stick with S3 and you can do some interesting things with the paths that something lives at in S3 to take advantage of to handle that batching. The ultimate decision that I went with was to use S3 because one the ultimate decision I went with to you was to use S3 because uh one were were time constraints. I didn't want to have to deal I didn't want to have to deal with introducing new database tables, introducing what could be a complex architectural decision because beyond just writing the code, you have to maintain it. And if I'm the main one writing it, I don't want to write I don't want to introduce a system that would be difficult for other people to pick up. Uh so I didn't go with using the database as a Q approach because though it is nice, it can be fancy. Uh I think it's something that if someone else has to come back and look at it, you could eventually figure it out. Sure, but it's not a common way people might use a data. It's not a common way that people who aren't very deep into databases might understand how to use it. So, I went with S3 for simplicity sake and for also making sure other people could easily pick up and modify the code as needed.
>> Right. Yeah, that makes sense. Um let's talk about like obviously it feels like you were on a cunt's timeline uh working through this. I want to see how it was like how many people did you have to collaborate with? How many teams did you have to talk to and how did that collaboration look like?
>> So for that particular for that particular project building the submission application I was primarily I was primarily working with my team lead and a product manager. But I do have a few other examples I could talk about if you want to talk about working uh across teams. Uh so following that first we were successful and we're focused on scaling and I moved into a team lead role and in that role I did do a lot more interaction across team and there there are a few ways that I did that. Number one was I picked up the role as most as essentially a release manager. We grew the team. We have a lot more people working on things and a lot more changes going out. Uh so one thing that I was responsible for was holding a weekly meeting where we collect all the changes we've made over the past few weeks uh consolidate them into a few key changes and talk across our stakeholders to make sure people understand what's going out. So in that case I'm talking with myself uh other team leads that are working on things product design and also our customer support because there are that might have questions of hey I thought this thing was working but actually this this thing happened or hey there's this new feature out and I'm not sure how it works. So that's one example where I had to work work cross functionally to understand what changes are going out cut the releases make sure we know what's going out and ultimately share with stakeholders how those changes might impact the service.
>> Got it. So in terms of in terms of the scale of changes that you're looking at as a release manager um like what were like some of the biggest challenges for you in that role and like how did you overcome those?
>> Sure. I think there's I think there's a few challenges especially when you're having a large engineering organization because of how we chose to do releases as release manager. One of the biggest things is there are a lot of changes and two as a developer you might be heads down on working on your change and you might not you might not know okay when is this change going out. So one thing that I had to really work on is overcommunicating. So that means not only making a scheduled event and calendar saying hey this is when changes are going out but also talking with team leads and making sure they know what the schedule is. Uh, one thing that I had to grow into was instead of assuming, hey, everyone knows we're going to get the code out on Tuesday was making an effort to put it on calendars, making an effort to make meetings, making an effort to reach out to team leads to let them know when things are coming up and also be accommodating because there might be a late breaking change that you know we release our thing to a staging environment, turns out it doesn't work as expected. There's also that coordination of making sure those changes get in uh if you have that bug fixed out before sees it. Uh I think the other side of that is also on the product side. I think sometimes there's gaps between what I understand as a developer and team lead and what product might understand as you know what features going out. One thing I had to work with as well was we initially I thought okay I'll just generate the release log from all the commits that came out right you know I'm a developer I can read them. That's not the same language that product managers or designers are reading. So I had to work along with our team leads to make sure okay we have our complete change log. Let's walk through that consolidated and translated not just to what code you committed but what changes are going on like what is the product that you're releasing each week. Uh so I think communication was a really big was a really big part of what I had to grow into in that release manager role.
>> Nice. That's that's a great example. How much of that process was manual and like did you bring in any kind of automation into that?
>> Uh so we we had a we have a decent bit of we added a decent we had a decent bit of automation. So I'm not reading through every single commit. GitHub has some tools where we can generate that would install automatically. Uh one other thing one other thing that that was introduced which I won't take credit for was that uh for adding backporting changes or late breaking bug fixes uh one of our DevOps engineers did a great job of adding some scripts to kind of automate that. Like I said you want to make things as easy as possible for people especially uh you're trying to get out late breaking changes. So we introduced we had engineer introduce scripts to easily backport your changes from your branch to a release branch that we had cut uh to simplify to simplify uh getting your changes out. You know as a developer you might be heads down on something. You're not worried about where it's you know you're worried about the bug fix. You're not worried about I need to mess around with a bunch of git commands to get to make my changes go where they need to go. So that was a bit of automation that was introduced as well.
>> Hi. So the the two projects that we talked about today um if there were any changes you were uh you had the option to make today
>> uh what changes would they be and why pick any project any of those two projects.
>> If there were any changes I had to make what would I make and why?
>> And what would you change in that system today if you were given the choice? That's a good question. I think one one improvement that we could make and again this is more of a process thing is uh trying to figure out to a way to give teams more autonomy in release schedules. I think for a bunch of reasons, some of them team level, some of them or level, we went with like a a weekly release process where we send everything out in one big package. Uh but if I could go back and change or improve the process, I'd want to push more of that dev the operations part down onto teams. Uh especially as you grow an organization, having that centralized place can be good in some cases, right? We have a weekly meeting, everyone is sitting down looking at every single change. But very often with bug fixes, you might not want to wait for a weekly release for everything to go out so that you can get your change out. Maybe you just wanted to deploy one piece of your application or maybe your changes are completely separated from everything else.
>> Yeah, that that does make a lot of sense.
>> Yeah. And
>> the one the one other thing I could add if I if I may was just that the other benefit is that developers have a better idea of how it what it takes to get their code from GitHub out to the internet and that shared understanding is also beneficial.
>> Yeah. Cool. Now we're at time. So thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me. This was a great discussion. I really enjoyed talking with you today.
>> Absolutely. I had a great time too.
>> Yep. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> The interview felt very genuine like Jonathan's responses were rooted in real work that he's done and I could see his passion from it from the work. So that was that came across very nicely for me. uh and the sense of ownership is a theme that I could get uh good signals on. I could see he was very clear in saying what he owned, what he built and then made sure he didn't take credit for other people's work. Those were those really stood out for me in terms of ownership and accountability and that would be something that I look for in all the candidates I interview.
>> Cool. So, Yeah.
>> I want I want you to save your higher, no higher, lean higher. I want you to save that decision for the end. I want to ask you as the very last question that we ask you. Um, but what what what themes outside of what you're saying, like if you were just trying to think of more like let's say Jonathan's not Jonathan, but Jonathan's like an actor who's representing like an archetype of certain types of candidates. Like that's how I think of themes is these kind of like patterns that like repeat themselves. Did you notice any kind of theme within this candidate that you've seen before in other candidates?
>> Yeah. Uh I'd say this candidate was a a strong uh mid to senior level engineer uh and has the potential to grow into more senior candidate with the right team and guidance.
>> This is my hot debrief on what we just talked about both of you. So, um, yeah, individual contribution, I would say that was a point of polish that I would have also liked to see a little bit more of a focus on. And the instant way to do that better is to just say I more than you say we.
>> Um, and you know that. And if you notice what you messed up, it's like almost like you didn't mess up. So, and you pointed out before we did, so perfect. Um, also it's hard for candidates to see that often. I just think that you have a good ability to because you're empathetic, it's very clear from the way that you speak, you have the ability to change perspectives with other people. So, I think that you have this ability to notice your own behavior probably a little bit more accurately than most people would because they just wouldn't notice that. So, that's to to your point. Uh to to to Pasa's point, um oh, super genuine, super genuine, super passionate. Um yeah, passion. Is that is that is that something that comes up a lot as like a checkbox for you in your mind when you're when you're when you're talking to a senior engineer do you expect to see passion? Yeah.
>> Yes. So the reason I frame my initial question about the project I ask to that's something they are proud of. I want to see that they're really proud of it. So that would uh bring in that sense of passion that hey I'm really proud of this. I want to talk about this. And that's that's why I frame it that way. and and I could see that with Jonathan's project. Uh I saw that he was really passionate about and proud of the work that he had done there.
>> Nice. Nice.
>> And that is something we do look for and uh candidates when we interview uh regardless of the size of the organization I'm interviewing for like I interview for startups that are less than 10 people and I interview for big tech as well. So that's
>> I feel like
>> I feel like the N and the N and Fang is really passionate about hearing about passion, you know.
>> Aren't they Aren't they passion obsessed?
>> Uh have you gone through Netflix's culture memo?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's you'll see how passionate we are as engineers.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And then I if I feel like the other points that I want to make here just in terms of the themes for me. So here's here's my here's here's my coaching for you, right? I'm a negotiation coach specifically for senior engineers. So I I I queue in on the way that people talk. And for me, the first thing I noticed about you in terms of like archetypes that repeat through candidates, you're an educator. Now, being an educator means you're really good at explaining, and you did this throughout the interview. You would say something something. What that means is blank. So that's really nice because what would be the opposite of that? somebody who just assumes you know everything I'm working on and I'm kind of arrogant about it. Um, so you're educating people. So you're talking like in a way that would make sense to uh in a super technical person or a super not technical person which is my in my opinion the way that the best communicators speak. So the flip side of that, like if this is a gift and a curse, that's the gift. But the curse is maybe sometimes you explain stuff you don't have to explain. And later on in the interview, I I have this exact time stamp. There was a really interesting moment when you just said, "Forget this." And you dropped the education thing and you just started speaking with a little bit more authority. And it was interesting. It's nice if you think of like communication as kind of like everybody has these polarities, these two different things that you show. You got the education thing in spades. So, it's nice to show that authorative thing in spades because that's how you get these extra points for seniority, saying no, which you actually did, by the way. So, that's sorry, that's that that's my first piece. My second theme here after the education theme, my second theme here is delivery. I was absolutely floored by your delivery. Um, you were you have a nice deep resonant voice. You're easy to listen to. about threequarters of the way through the interview I was like Jonathan has this like seale sweet energy right now this is so cool so yeah just in terms of delivery uh some engineers like a lack of charisma can be fatal in senior plus engineering rounds you do not have that problem so people that have that problem watch Jonathan and just like model what he's doing the last theme that I would say here is there were some nice little things that you did to avoid down leveling right like Netflix and persona's bar and him having all this experience of like what senior means at Netflix. Let's just forget about that for a second just for someone to come in as a candidate and check a few boxes to avoid downing. We can see what Jonathan did here. Number one, introducing myself. I'm a senior engineer. Great. Now they are you have set the frame for the conversation. So a lot of people don't do that. It's a good it's a good tip. Number two, you did speak with some authority later which I really liked. That's what senior plus engineers do as well. Also, you did a good prompt for a cold interviewer later where you didn't turn it back over to the interviewer with a question. You just kind of like made a statement to let them know that you were done and that they could keep going. So, we can look at that the time stamp, too. And one of my favorites, you reframed a question. Senior engineers must not answer every question that they're given exactly as it is. It's good to sometimes say, "I don't have that, but I have this instead, and then I'm just going to tell you about this." Great. Um, another thing here was, uh, there are a few cool moments where I could see that you were talking to yourself. And I think for all the engineers out there, when you're talking to yourself, it's a key that you're on the right track and you're not in interview mode. These happen for like moments at a time, but they're just really interesting. um in in my ways I call them helpful distractions that um people that sound like a robot when they talk. They actually like need help to like take a practical step to not sound like a robot. So one of those ways is to talk to yourself and you literally did that once. So I'll point it out. It doesn't sound as crazy as it sounds. I don't mean like
>> on the streets of the city like mumbling. I mean like like oh like saying something offh hand like oh yeah I'm not really sure. I don't really remember exactly what that number was anyway. Like yeah or that that kind of thing. Um cool. All right, reactions to what I just said. I I said a lot. I want to hear what you guys think. Yeah,
>> I I do want to add to one point um about the introduction. Uh I think one thing that set the leveling bar for me just subconsciously as Jonathan was talking was he is interviewing for a like my assumption was this is a senior engineer. So he's interviewing for a senior but senior engineer a wide band right? So there could be like beginner level senior engineer or someone who's right to become a staff or staff. Um and that came to me when he actually explicitly said I'm a tech lead right that that means you're already a mature senior engineer like just subconsciously a tech lead is more mature than just a senior engineer.
>> What about the change manager delivery manager piece? Does that does that have anything there?
>> Yeah, that was that was interesting for me. Um because uh at that time I was expecting to drill more into the same project that you're talking about but then Jonathan switched it which I was like does it mean that this project was not as big as he initially claimed but then I realized like the release manager piece is way more relevant as he was talking about it way more relevant to uh the question that I asked about collaboration like have you had collaboration I'd have taken it to like conflict and conflict management and resolution But again, we didn't have time. But but I think uh it it it was in the end it turned out to be a good redirection, a misdirection. Yeah. Even though I didn't like it initially like when that happened, u I like the eventual outcome.
>> So let's keep talk about leveling for a minute. So um I also thought that Jonathan did a good job when it came to for the things where it would be a no. And I and correct me if I'm wrong persona, but if somebody you asked how much of this was manual versus how much this is automated, it would be a sign for lower than senior. If I just say straight up it was manual and I never considered automations, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And
>> that would be like a probably a flag for me personally.
>> What about what about not having an SLA?
>> Well, it is totally fine. That's why I I had the clarifying question of um where this thing sits in the system.
>> And then once I understood the product, I understood that there's not a time criticality for because I've used the product too. I upload and I just get a message and then I get the email later on. It's
>> um so I kind of knew that that was the case. Not having an SLA is fine for some systems. Uh again, it depends on
>> Does it Does it make you assume? So Jonathan didn't do this. Jonathan said, "You know what? we didn't have an SLA, but I like to do it within 60 minutes, which made a lot of sense. If somebody just says no, they don't have any SLAs's, what do you assume about the technical ecosystem that they're working in? Do you assume it's like less sophisticated? I'm just I'm I'm not saying Jonathan.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Uh I want to my initial like knee-jerk reaction is to say yes, but but the way I would think about it is I want to understand the overall ecosystem.
>> I see how mature this product is as well, right? If it's like the like a micros service handling IRS uh filings, I would expect it to be a pretty mature product and if
>> right
>> if there is not an SLA for a particular skills, there should be a good reason for it,
>> right?
>> Um in this case, I understand because you have the offline fallbacks and there is no time criticality to respond. You want to focus more on resilience than performance. So I understand that. So it was it was it is still not a great idea to say no.
>> Definitely don't leave it at that.
>> So cool. So let's go through from the top right the personal pitch. Mark, if you could pull up Johnson's personal pitch. Let me I I have the time stamp here. Give me one sec. It was right around 3 minutes in. Um so yeah, let's dive a little deeper, look into this interview at the key moments and just talk about these moments. So what did we think about this pitch? What signs for seniority are here? or what signs are again not Jonathan but candidates in general what sign should they be aware of that might take away from seniority here
>> wow no that that's fantastic I love that hi I'm I'm Jonathan I'm a senior back engineer I've been an engineer for about seven years at this point working from finance to startups and most recently at the uh I'm a team lead there so I'm running a team of about four people, two backend engineers, two DevOps engineers. Uh, but outside of that, I think we do have some common interest. I really like to support people in technology, people who are trying to grow and learn. So, I've led mentorship programs in the past, practice interviews, resume reviews, things like that. And besides that, I do like to do some community gardening. So, I volunteer at the community garden that's actually in my neighborhood. Um, so, you know, helping around the garden, weeding, all types of stuff. I get a lot of I don't know what the right word is but it it feels good.
>> It sure does for me a few things that stood out right in terms of Jonathan was very clear in setting uh his seniority level. He stated his number of years of experience
>> which is a good thing if it is at a good place like if you're like three years of experience and you've somehow raised to be a senior engineer and a tech lead already then maybe don't mention 3 years but then like if it's 7 years it's significant enough uh so I I really like the the placement of the years of experience in his uh sentence and I really liked um talking about his uh diverse set of experience in terms of
>> at a startup like completely different scales which shows me that oh he's done a lot of different things. So that talks about like the variety of experience he comes with and then he also mentioned about uh leading four other engineers which gives me a good realistic sense of someone with seven years of experience leading four years uh from all the historical candidates I've seen engineers I've worked with uh that gives me a sense of what kind of uh person I can expect in this interview. So that was really good level setting for me. what what what level specific data did he give you that you noticed here in the in the personal pitch?
>> Um like he mentioned where he's at now as his senior engineer
>> and he was a team lead
>> where he's leading four engineers.
>> Yep. Yep. I like that. Did you like that? Did you like that inclusion?
>> Yep. I like that. Um, and that that's that's what I'm talking about like the the way he set his level uh
>> his current level which subconsciously as an interviewer when you talk to someone about their current level the way you would evaluate the interview is I'm going to evaluate this person at this current level I already have an idea of what kind of engineer this person is going to be right and that's where I would
>> uh I would level them in my mind as I'm talking through the interview.
>> Mhm. It could be good Google good or bad but uh if you are who you claim to be then it would turn out good you prepared for an interview.
>> So if you meet those expectations or uh do better then that's a that there is an opportunity for you to uh uplevel as well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think I think you run a bigger risk as a candidate to not mention the current level that you are at and the current level that you're targeting and the current scope that you have. Um, Jonathan, like whether or not somebody's good and genuine and saying the right things that they are saying, that's I think that's a different thing. I just think that in general that that was a good box to check. Um, I I I I was going to ask persona, what if would it make somebody seem more senior or less senior if they included like and in one of my projects I saved whatever x amount of money by doing some automations? Would you would you would you knee knee knee-jerk if I put a metric in the impact in my pitch? What's your knee-jerk reaction?
>> Um I I I'm a very datadriven person, so I love metrics.
>> Yeah.
>> If you do throw in those, I would love that. It doesn't have to be dollar cost per se. It And I like Jonathan did mention some metrics. He talked about
>> later on later on he did.
>> Yeah. When you're talking about the project. Um, so those, yeah, I I love metrics when I hear them, but I I don't want them to be forced, right? They should be like organic.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's where the preparation comes in,
>> right? And there was no there was no like there's no like actual role that Jonathan's interviewing for. So obviously he wouldn't need to do this. But if you were Jonathan, I would have liked to have heard and the reason that I'm interested in this opportunity is blank or what I'm looking for in my next opportunity is blank just because smart candidate saved the interviewer time by answering questions that you know that they're going to ask. Um my my other my other question here persona and then I want to ask I want to ask Jonathan just how you thought about the pitch, your thoughts about the pitch, how you approach the pitch, but this is the last thing. Um bread breadcrumbs. So ba basically my theory is this like you're if you actually look at the if you if you actually look at the the way that some interviewers approach interviewing they want to ask as many follow-ups as possible and as little actual questions as possible. And I've heard a bar raiser at Amazon. This is the most trained interviewers at Amazon say that they've conducted an interview where they just ask about the personal pitch. Tell me about yourself. And then the rest of the interview is follow-up questions based on that pitch. So my question for you persona is could you have conducted a h how thorough and interesting of a conversation could you have had just as follow-up questions based off this this this pitch.
>> Yep. Um we could have gone the 25 minutes.
>> Cool.
>> Because because he he did give me a lot in that buckets, right? like small company, big company, this that there was a lot of buckets. Um I I would say I I would have
>> if I wanted to nitpick, which I do because remember this isn't about Jonathan, it's about candidates. I would say I might want to have a few different breadcrumbs for the type of projects that I got into. Mainly just naming some of these like architectural choices that I made later with S3. like every single behavioral round you do, you're never not going to talk about your flagship one or two projects. So, I'm a big fan of plugging just a sentence for each of those one or two projects in the personal pitch. That way, it's kind again, you're you're getting them excited for the conversation they're about to have and subconsciously you're leading them down the road with breadcrumbs in the direction that you want to go in. So, yeah, that's my that's my piece. Jonathan, what are your thoughts on personal pitches? How did you how do you approach yours? you included some hobbies in there at the end. Like what are your what's your take?
>> Uh my take with the feedback is yeah I want to make it ideally as easy as possible for the interviewer to know who I am or or jump on whatever. Uh I like what you mentioned about breadcrumbs because now I'm thinking about okay like here's some other things I can add. Um, but yeah, on top of that, I I I think for me is like said, just setting the scope like
>> especially if you've especially if you like I've worked at a few different places, but if if you don't have a big name brand on your resume, which I'm assuming, you know, your interviewer is going to have your resume at some point like
>> you want to make it as easy as possible for them to know something versus if I said, you know, if I worked at, you know, huge Fortune 500 company in data organization, like
>> you can easily make assumptions, but if you don't like I've jumped between so many places, it's you I think you have to add those extra bits of details so people can kind of bring them on to something.
>> Dude, 100%. Let me let me let me say let me say here that persona, what what percentage of candidates do you have you seen hired? What percentage of the candidates hired at Netflix that you've been in hiring discussions for? What percentage of them have zero name brand companies in their background? Just your best guess. Um I it's very hard to pick
>> less than less than 50 or more than 50
>> from just people I know.
>> Yeah. I want to say again uh I would say it's less than 50 but there's a reason because um there are people who have the spectrum they yeah
>> work at small companies like startups they find their own uh entrepreneurial ventures and then end up with some name brand and then more at Netflix just because Netflix looks for those has historically been looking for senior level engineers
>> right
>> but even at other places that I've interviewed for like before Netflix at LinkedIn it used to be very similar um not a depending on the seniority level right if you have candidates who you're hiring for fresh out of college that's what you would expect so as interviewers you would know what you're expecting at that level that you're hiring for if you're looking at mid to uh like mature senior uh engineers or higher than that uh having a name brand probably helps.
>> I just want to say something real quick because Jonathan, you brought it up. People that aren't having name brands on their resume face different challenges. The main one that I notice is how do I show them that I have complex projects when my projects aren't at their scale? I don't have Netflix scale. How do I convince Netflix the work that I did was hard? And this is for all candidates. Most candidates don't have fang experience. So, I I just want to see what you guys think about this. So, this is uh Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I I do want to clarify one thing like the point that you mentioned about scale right like um
>> like I I don't know if I would call name brand like tech company but then that stood out to me because he he spoke about the scale at which he worked
>> and I know operates at that scale. So I I would I immediately expected to have the uh the complexities that I would look for for candidates.
>> This is not this is not for Jonathan. This is for other This is for other people and for us to have a conversation. Like what I'm saying is if you guys take a look at this right here, just what do you think of this? If your background only has smaller scale projects compared to the company you're interviewing with, think of other ways to showcase complexity, such as a high growth rate, a lot of dependencies, changes as a result of your efforts, risking your reputation, a scheduling impact with a downstream effect, a consequence like losing a customer if you got it wrong, learning a new technology, especially if it was outside your wheelhouse, shipping on a tight deadline, complications over completing priorities with teams, and navigating ambiguity. thoughts.
>> I would say they're all great points.
>> Uh
>> yeah,
>> I you want to pick and choose. You don't like depending on what level you're uh interviewing for.
>> Um
>> and talk about certain things from here, but these are all great points.
>> Which one strike you as higher level? Which one strikes you as lower level? Um, by the way, I I do want to call out that regardless of what uh scale projects you have in your background, talking about these things will will be very beneficial in an interview.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, like someone can work at a fan company, come from a fan company and not be able to talk about complex projects. That wouldn't fly.
>> It's uh that would actually be way worse. Which one do you think if you're going to pick two or three of these that stand out a little bit more that have like a higher weight, maybe more of a senior a seniorish signal? Which one would you think? Just knee knee-jerk.
>> Um for me this is going to be in combination with other signals I'm getting from the interview. Right? So if for example uh risking your reputation is a sign of say courage that this person is a very courageous person in making risks taking risks in their work
>> or or selflessness right those are traits I would look for but I've already gotten those signals from other parts of the interview.
>> Yeah
>> looking about this again might just be redundant or repetitive. So, I would say be prepared for all of these uh and then pick and choose which one you want to use based on how the rest of the interview has gone so far.
>> Yeah. Cool. Cool. All right. Jonathan, thoughts thoughts on this bad boy? Is this What do you think?
>> Yeah. From from my perspective, the ones that ones that stick out to me, I think navigating
>> I think navigating ambiguity
>> and competing priorities
>> I think indep independent of whatever company you're at. I think competing priorities and navigating ambiguity are going to be common everywhere.
>> And so I think that's something you can
>> I think that's something that's easier to highlight if you are having that if you are second guessing yourself of okay, do I have the scale? But if you can if you can speak to those common questions that you know every team deals with those things. Um personally I think I think those stand out to me.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> And the the the one other one I would say is the consequence like consequences losing a customer or whatever benefit whatever upside downside if you weren't able to deliver what you were working on.
>> Cool. Um, so let's let's get into some of these more timestamps here. So, uh, my my my my my moment that I marked as I absolutely must watch with you guys is over here at 9:45. So, this was a follow-up question to Persona's first question. The first question just like tell me about a project. This one was tell me more about the API design. What were the specifics? And I want us to notice the micro signals that we're sending about leveling specifically with our language choices. Words like contract. Is that a senior plus word? Does it give you a knee-jerk reaction of a senior plus person that uses words like contract? And also just like let's notice just just yeah just what what we think of this answer. Yeah. Right around 9:45.
>> Bit more about um the API design itself like how did you let's talk about the offline system that you designed and implemented. what were what were the API constructs like what were the agreements uh and how did you think about coming up with those contracts?
>> Sure. So for the offline mode there's a few things that we have to take into consideration. Uh I'll talk about two parts of it and we can go we can go into more depth as needed. Uh one part of that is we're still taking in those returns right we have a microser architecture we're using cues as we're using cues to decouple those applications. So we're still reading in messages from our queue which tell us this is the this is this is the information we want to send down and then we also have that downstream API that says you know that sends us that we send uh that information and we might get an acknowledgement back. So let's talk about the first part for supporting that offline mode. Uh the first part of that like I mentioned was what I was what I mentioned where we're storing that information in batches. So the first part of that was making sure that even if we know the API is down, we're still uh pulling in that information and putting it in temporary storage. So for that, I used uh S3 to pull that information to to temporarily store that information. In terms of the circuit breaker pattern specifically, here's what we would do when you submit that information to the API. The API will give you an acknowled will give you two things. One, it will either give you an acknowledgement. Hey, we received the information or it might give you an error response and the IRS provides uh a bunch of docs about what those different error codes mean. So, we were looking for very specific error codes that tell us, hey, we weren't able to process this because there was an issue downstream. So, the first thing we do is say there was an error downstream. Uh let's there was an the first thing we did for that. First thing that I did for that was sorry when we when I send that information down to the API and I get that particular error code uh I kicked off I won't say a class but a piece of logic that basically says we got I got this error code and now I want to turn off I want to turn off submissions to that uh API. So at that point the main thing that I turned off was just that submission part. we had an internal queueing system within the service and what that just means is we'll do all the pre-processing but we're just going to hold off. The other final part of that that I mentioned is that ping that uh that ping to the API. So we have a background job that when our off when the offline mode is enabled we had I set a configurable uh number of minutes that we would wait to clean the API again. So I don't remember the exact number. It might have been 3 minutes, 5 minutes, something to that effect. And once we finally get a positive response, I enable our system to continue processing those submissions and send them to the API.
>> Nice.
>> Um, persona, what do you think? What what what what knee-jerk reaction do you have to that in terms of signaling for level?
>> Um, my initial reaction just watching it again. Yeah. I think this is the signal I had back then too is um I talked about specific like the contracts. Uh the signal I was looking for is uh if this candidate had actually designed those APIs they would talk about these were the request parameters supported these were the responses like very clearly. So the signal I got from that response from Jonathan is he probably I won't say Jonathan this candidate probably worked on the queueing system itself but the APIs already existed in code and they didn't actually implement those but they implemented the queueing system around it to enable that offline mode is is the sense I got uh from that explanation. I don't know if it's true or not. Um and and but what I was specifically looking for is does this candidate have experience defining like the schemas and the contracts. If they talked about this was a rest api or like this was a graphql endpoint like whatever or it's protobuff this was this is how its definition looked looked like then that would have given me a signal that these are this is a candidate who's who has experience designing scheas and uh APIs across services. So that would mean bump up their seniority. That's
>> love that. I love that. That's a great point. Uh uh John Jonathan did you hear the what's the one word? What's the one tiny word that we talked about at the beginning? If you went from this word to the other word, it would have solved the individual contribution thing.
>> Uh I
>> Yeah. Yeah. I So I I I keep hearing we and I'm like, what what is he doing? And then those follow-up questions would be what what what were you doing? Um
>> what what did you think about the
>> what did you think about the circuit the circuit breaker pattern points and the queueing points? Basically the again this theme of like Jonathan would say something or the candidate the candidate would say something and then say what that means is blank. What what what signals am I showing about my leveling if I'm explaining these kind of things.
>> Yeah. Um I think it's a delicate balance where uh if a candidate is overexlaining something uh that would mean that maybe they just prepared that piece so well and they want to just give me all the details.
>> Did he feel too scripted though? Did Jonathan feel too scripted overall?
>> Um the part where he got a bit uh confused about what he was going to say. I think he lost his line of thought.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and that was I felt like that might be and that might have been because he he had something in mind that he had prepared to talk about
>> and then he was talking about something and then there was a conflict in the flow of thoughts
>> and that's when he had to like take a pause. But I think he handled it well.
>> But overall, would you call him too scripted overall?
>> No.
>> No. Me neither. I don't think so.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Extremely. And I think that that's totally natural to lose your train of thought in an interview. Um, but I I I liked another thing that you did here, Jonathan, was again talking about these little signals. Like half of interviewing is literally just knowing how to delicately balance not giving too much context and giving enough context. And the other half of interviewing is just knowing like, you know, the signs that know you're on the right track and the signs that you're slightly off track. And one of the tiny little signs for when you're on track is when you say things as a senior plus engineer like I don't remember the exact numbers. If you don't remember if you don't remember details from your past projects, handwave them just like Jonathan just did here. I don't remember the exact name of that technology. I don't remember the exact thing we're using for our testing framework there because you save yourself time and senior engineers do a way more handwaving than below senior engineers. So I just I liked that. Um
>> I I do want to add to that there is a
>> it is also a way of uh dissuading the interviewer from going into topics that you don't want to talk about.
>> Oh. Oh okay. How do you do that?
>> Just like what Jonathan did. He's like the skewing timer thing like like I'm not too sure what it was but this was
>> Yes. So he's already signaling to me that he's not uh for whatever reason not going to be comfortable talking about that. So I'm not going there for follow.
>> Should we have so so so circling back to what you first said? So you asked this question to see if he's designed APIs. If a candidate has not designed an API but has been more involved in the queueing part, would you rather them just say that like look never designed a Okay. So that would actually score a point with you. Okay. That's kind of that's that's counterintuitive.
>> No, that is setting expectations, right? Uh there are few things that will check off for me personally that would tell me that the candidate is honest, right? Uh it's a sign of confidence like especially during an interview when someone is interviewing and they're exposing their vulnerabilities saying I don't know this. That is a big sign of confidence that this person is confident of getting things done right. Um, so that's a big signal for me. Um, and then setting expectations that I'm that's not my strength, right? This is the part that I know. I can talk about this.
>> The strongest people say that's not my strength. It's so counterintuitive. The smartest people say I don't know the most. The strongest people say that's not my strength the most. It's like it's this meta point that I want to make about engineering is like this whole thing like being vulnerable is a bad thing because it's like security vulnerabilities. It's like dude in interviews that holds a lot of people back.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I It is counterintuitive I guess now I think about it. But um I would say I also think about like if even at an interview stage if you're not feeling comfortable you know exposing your vulnerabilities how would you feel about actually when you work there then would that be the right place for you? M
>> and then the sorry but the the question about what would you do differently? I think that that's the most common time that you get a chance to show your vulnerabilities. And the most common mistake people say is oh I wouldn't change a thing. I'm a smart person. I thought through all those decisions. Why would I change something? It's like you're actually dumber because you can't think of what you don't know. So yeah, I love that. I love that Jonathan had something to say about the past project and it took you a minute to get there late later on at the very very end. It was the last question he asked you. But yeah, so another cool moment here. Um I really like this thing you did at 225. This was the So this was the counterpoint, right? Everybody has point counterpoint for Jonathan. I'm an educator. I'm going to make sure you understand exactly what I'm talking about. Counterpoint. Now I'm gonna speak with authority. I'm not I'm gonna be a little bit more selfish essentially and a little bit more of uh yeah, I'm gonna be a little I'm gonna be a little bit more um let's let's just say talking with authority here. I thought this is a great counterpoint and I would like to maybe see this a little bit more maybe even earlier. Maybe even not even waiting till the last 30% of the interview, but maybe getting this in early and maybe alternating between both. And maybe it's like an 8020 thing where it's just like 80% of the time I do that education thing and 20% of the time I make sure that I do this because I think when you talk like this, you're sending a little bit more. Let me let me actually see what persona thinks. When when he talks like this, do you feel a little bit higher authority? And does it feel just knee-jerkwise that it's a little bit more comfortable saying no? Let's say that. Yeah, let's play this. It's one of my favorite moments.
>> Uh, so we we had a we have a decent bit of we added a decent we had a decent bit of automation. So I'm not reading through every single commit. GitHub has some tools where we can generate that would be installed automatically. Uh one other thing one other thing that that was introduced which I won't take credit for was that uh for adding back changes or breaking
>> I'm not reading all those logs. GitHab some has some of those things. I don't even remember what that name is. Is he talking with a little bit more authority there or what do you think just I know this is a small clip but literally like in the in the lab in in the lab for interviews they've gotten that random people can walk off the street and accurately predict whether or not somebody will get a job offer just by watching the first 10 seconds of their introduction on mute. So we can get a lot of data from a small slice of data. So, I'm just saying from that small slice of data, what is your knee-jerk reaction just for a person says, "I'm not reading all those logs, so I have to." And GitHub has some things, but I don't even remember the name honestly. Yeah.
>> Um, for me, um, that that did stand out well. Uh, I don't know if I would call it authority, but it was
>> it is how the real world works. It's um, so that shows me that this person has experience. They've really done what they're talking about. They know what they're talking about. So in that sense yeah it might be authority but for me like that was genuine. It was it was very genuine. That's how it would have happened if I have to think about how it would have happened in an environment like that.
>> And then do do interview do interviewers like to hear how people would talk in the real world? Do they prefer that to how they would talk in interviews? Is that is that more ideal?
>> I can't speak for all interviews but
>> but for you for you.
>> Yes. For me yes. Uh I would rather
>> that the candidate be very genuine. uh based in reality than say something that they they haven't done.
>> It's almost like it shows that they're smarter, but also it's like and now we're not stuck in the confines of what an interview is. Now we're just trying to be smart together, which is ultimately like what we're going to do on the job. So yeah, small point here, but I just I just wanted to make that for I just want to make that. Jonathan, thoughts thoughts on this little tiny slice of data and this like counterpoint that might be useful for folks.
>> Yeah, I I think the the point of just it goes back to what you were saying about handwaving. Yeah, I think for some for a lot for a lot of this I think there's a watching it back I think there's a lot of preamble and so I think getting to the point and trying to reduce some of the education part is definitely a benefit. Um
>> especially in this case because
>> this was a case where
>> in the in the actual experience on the job I was like yeah there were so many times where you just want to get the thing done so you don't really you're trying to reduce all you know as much things as you can. So yeah from a exposition perspective yeah I think it helps a lot to just get get to the point in that case and lean more on that side.
>> But but did he ramble persona overall? overall.
>> Oh, no. I I really like
>> No.
>> Yeah.
>> I really like that I could
>> understand his thought process. It wasn't I was there just seeing his brain going through the motions. I really like how he was thinking out loud.
>> Uh that
>> that gives me a lot more signals about the kind of engineer he the candidate is.
>> One thing I do want to call out sorry in that clip.
>> You're good. You're good. I for me personally it's a lot of extra points when someone says
>> I cannot take credit for that. Ah
>> so that I and then talk
>> how come
>> uh because when I'm interviewing someone this is someone I want to work with uh daily
>> and for that trust is very important and what kind of person would I trust someone who's not going to take credit away from me someone who I can trust to do the right thing working every day with me
>> um and such an environment uh if someone tells me I'm not taking credit for that even though that person is not even in the room who are they taking credit from if they were going to and I wouldn't know either right so if they do say that um that's definitely extra credits uh
>> it's almost like it's almost like the senior thing is part of it but then that trust thing is part of it like you just can't come in and be like I'm just a badass senior and I speak with authority and it's also like no I have to have that other side of like yeah and I didn't do all that stuff it's like you're right there's a there's a certain amount of approachability there um really cool Yeah, really cool tip. So, here this is another four-st star moment and I have a four-st star scale by the way. If we go to 23 22 um this is the most common follow-up question in behavioral interviews. What would you do differently? And Jonathan didn't didn't didn't nope out though you could have you could have just said this is taking too long and I don't know. Um and let's see what we thought of again you talking to yourself and saying that's a good question. It's another sign that you're on the right track. When you're talking to yourself, you're not concerned with your how you're looking to the interviewer. And counterintuitively, it actually means you're doing a better job because you're being more natural. It doesn't mean you're like being narcissistic. It means like no, you're you're that's a path you're going in the right direction. That's a small thing. And uh let's see let's let's see how he does here. Yeah. To this question. Um if there were any changes you were uh you had the option to make today
>> what changes would they be and why pick any project any of those two projects
>> there were any changes I had to make what would I make and
>> and what would you change in that system today if you were given the choice
>> that's a good question I think one one improve improvement that we could make and again this is more of a process thing is uh trying to figure out to a way to give teams more autonomy in release schedules. I think for a bunch of reasons some of them team level some of them or level we went with like a a weekly release process where we send everything out in one big package. Uh but if I could go back and change or improve the process I'd want to push more of that dev the operations part down onto teams. uh especially as you grow an organization, having that centralized place can be good in some cases, right? We have a weekly meeting, everyone is sitting down looking at every single change, but very often with bug fixes, you might not want to wait for a weekly release for everything to go out so that you can get your change out. Maybe you just wanted to deploy one piece of your application or maybe your changes are completely separated from everything else.
>> Yeah, that that does make a lot of sense.
>> Yeah. And the one the one other thing I could add if I if I may is just that the other benefit is that developers have a better idea of how it what it takes to get their code from GitHub out to the internet and that shared understanding is also beneficial.
>> Mark posit I am so freaking happy to see you interrupt your interviewer here. Here's the thing. Here's the thing. If you're gonna be a senior plus engineer, you got to interrupt your interviewer once throughout the whole interview to make them feel listened to and respected with your that you have passion. So, another great job, great signal. This is where I wrote down Jonathan has that CTO energy because again, you're operating in this shared framework of you know how it is. You know how it is. You don't want to review all these things every week and have to wait for have to to to ship every week to do this. I just that that's where I wrote down Jonathan has CTO energy here and I just like it it it's because you're you're talking in the way of like dude I get it. They call this leveling. One of my favorite books about communication is called the verbal art of self-defense. And she says a lot of things about tonality and the way she talks about like the ideal way that we should talk to people is like leveling. It's just kind of like you and I both know that we don't want to wait every single week to review these bugs and changes and it's like oh wow cool. Yeah, this person's totally here with me. So, um yeah, one of my favorite parts of the interview reactions, knee-jerk reactions to this clip.
>> Um I'll go first. For me, um, I really loved that he took time to think about a response because again that that means he the candidate was able to think on their feet, right, for something that they were not really prepared to answer. And I gave him two choices. one was the technical project and then the other one was the processor oriented project to talk about and that was intentional because that gives me a sense of some level of seniority again because a person who's spent more time in the technical of things as a more like engineer to senior engineer candidate would have probably picked a technical challenge to talk about that they would change which is fine which is fine this is a complete IC candidate. But then if someone is able to talk about process
>> that to me is those are the pain points that lead and above kind of candidates would face that is something that I know I deal with in a lot of places for many years now it's like can we just improve this process it's um it's about dealing with process and people uh that shows that level of maturity uh as a lead and above compared to here's a technical challenge. If you had picked something like hey I picked S3 versus the database I'd have done something differently there that's a good sign too technically someone very strong who's showing vulnerability to go back and change what uh decisions they made but talking about process has that little bit of u maturity that comes only with experience
>> man that's good yeah we're about to just end on the last thing and just see what our closing thoughts are so Jonathan any any reactions to either what we just said or this this last answer.
>> Yeah, I I mean candidly that did that I kind of was thinking on my feet because I was like yeah did some prep but I definitely wasn't expecting that question. Uh I also think just in general like you mentioned like as a senior engineer the more you grow the more you start to get into process stuff and so I think I kind of I didn't lean into that intentionally but the reason I leaned into it because honestly it can be more frustrating for the process stuff versus like a technical decision because it's a lot easier to get a technical decision right like I can go in my IDE I can write the code yes I might have to you know write it you know I might have to talk with one or two people but the process the process parts are where it gets kind of gnarly because it takes more than just you or even a handful of people to move to move that in any direction.
>> Influence. Yeah, it involves influencing other people. Good, good, good. Okay, let's get our overall takeaways in here. Uh I think I uh I I want to go first. Um I let Jonathan go second and then Persona go third. And I would love to hear higher no higher overall decision for for for Persona. Uh, so for me, um, I'm going to basically I'm going to say one point that you just mentioned, which is you're a good improviser. You have to know if you're a good improviser. If you're not a good improviser, there are a couple ways that we talk about in the course about how you can learn how to improvise. And actually, Jonathan showed a few of them here today. Um, number one, improvise in a direction. So, you can improvise in a direction anytime you're asked a technical question. If you don't know what to say and it's a question that's technical, it's not like, you know, tell me about a time you had a conflict with a colleague or something, which is more about uh human uh interpersonal skills. If it's like, tell me about a project that you did, you don't know what to say, just talk about trade-offs and talk about complexity. So complexity like what was the greatest thing that I encountered on this in terms of challenge and what did I do about it? Um, and outside of that, you're always going to have to improvise in every single interview. So prepare for it and search in a direction such as greatest challenge or um uh trade-offs and that'll be an easier way to improvise. Uh overall, yeah, um I thought that if you're if you're the type of candidate who really if you're the type of communicator who really enjoys educating people, that is a gift that a lot of engineers don't have. The gift that comes with that is that you're going to be seen as humble. You're going to be seen as a better communicator. But the risk that you run is over optimizing on that and then having a little bit less authority. So if you can have those points where you educate, but also super early in the interview, show that you can do the opposite and just talk like leveling. Like you and I both know we don't want to review all those logs ourselves every single week to see what all the bugs were. I'd rather pull some up off GitHub and do that instead. Um so yeah, you want to have counterpoints to whatever it is that um your style gives you for free. Um, yeah, I really really liked uh a lot of micro signals that Jonathan sent about his leveling. Again, it comes from the top of the call, the introduction. I'm a senior engineer. If you're going for senior, ju just say the level you're going for. It it helps set the frame. Also, say the scope of the projects you've worked on. Both of those things Jonathan did. Um, talk about process when they ask you what you could fix. Say the word contract when you talk about APIs. I would even prefer you say contract and not say API. Um, avoid words like test coverage. And um, you got to break some rules. Senior engineers got to break some rules. Jonathan broke a few rules here. He said no to his interviewer in a way by interrupting his interviewer, which I loved. He talked with some authority at least once. And um, yeah, it's a really good example of a candidate who has uh the type of communication style of a leader, someone that you can listen to. It's like there's different levels of leadership. The first level of leadership is just being able to teach Stacy to go do something. The second level of leadership is to teach Stacy how to do something so she can go teach Fred how to do something. I think that the second one involves conviction. Actually getting people convicted in your ideas. The first one is just getting them to understand buy in. Buyin versus conviction. So yeah, that's my rep. Jonathan, what do you got takeaways from today? Yeah, I think one of my takeaways watching the clips, I'd like I'd like to reduce a bit of repetition. I think watching back some of the answers, I think I get the answers, but I think I circle around with a bunch of things. That's kind of like the educator thing that you were mentioning. So, I definitely uh as well as the counterpoint. Uh I know we talked about speaking with authority, so I definitely want to see how I can push that as early and you know, push that earlier into the interview. Um because like you said, you know, you only have so much time. You want to give the person as many signals as possible. Um, uh, yeah, I'm I'm going to leave it at that. Yeah, I think I think y'all have spoken to a lot of the other things.
>> Press close us out.
>> All righty. Um, for me, this was a great discussion. So, thank you, Jonathan. Um, one more thing that Kevin mentioned earlier to keep in mind is using I and V appropriately. uh focus on the eyes in your interview because it is your interview. Um I love the authority aspect of it. Uh but I also really loved Jonathan's humility while speaking with authority. So it's it's a uh that that was a very delicate balance and I really love that. Um and I'm sorry for uh interjecting you at the end. I typically wouldn't do that but today I knew we were recording only for 25 minutes so sorry about that.
>> Um from the interview itself uh I would say a solid hire for a senior engineer uh with I would flag it as potential to grow further with the right mentorship and team.
>> All right. So that's all we got today. We'll see you guys next time. See you everybody. Bye.
>> Thank you. [Music]