Hello everyone. This is Alexi Molashina. I'm a product manager. Basically now most of the projects I'm working on is AI or data management projects or both of it in one in one product. I have experience more than any decade. Uh it's a privilege for me to uh to be here as the host of the interview. So you have a great opportunity to check out the interview on the machine learning. We have uh Denise here who will be the interviewer and Mahilo who will be answering. This is what we got. [Music] Before we start, this video is brought to you with the support of Njax, a program developed by EPOM to boost and spread top-notch software engineering practices and processes across organizations and teams. Engine X provides a variety of services, tools, and learning opportunities to keep improving software development performance, integrate best tools into your daily tasks, and promote a culture of excellence and innovations in your teams and companies. So, please check out the links below to see more information. Let's meet out our interviewer Denise. It's over to you. Please share with us your experience and pres introduce yourself. Yeah, so my my name is Dennis. Uh I work at at EPM systems. Uh at the moment I have uh five years of experience in in data engineering and machine learning engineering and MLOps. Um so currently I'm mostly involved into the projects uh for development J&J AI applications uh different ML microservices for for the big financial company and I also help them uh to build the infrastructure for for MLOps. So uh shortly about the role uh we are looking for an experienced ML engineer um who knows how to work with ML systems end to end. Um so uh who is capable to gather business requirements, translate these business requirements into ML objectives, uh how to prepare the data for um machine learning model uh training, how to deploy the model and how to monitor its performance. Uh so uh this interview will be like uh uh to check the mindset uh how the the engineer can work with the system end to end and yeah I think this is from my side and let's go to Mhilo and please share with us your experience actually I'm shifter to IT sphere uh I have management degree and uh degree in uh engineering degree in aviation but last five years I moved to IT sphere and uh especially like in 2021 I started uh uh external course in yam for devops engineering and before it was also my interest in ML so this things together works for me like it is very interesting field so last four years uh I'm studying and learning a but from DevOps field uh and also ML and for the moment I'm working as a middle software engineer in Yapam and uh approaching to like ML ops engineering. So that field should be kind of familiar for me. Thank you. So now that both of you guys are introduced yourself, I think we are ready to do the interview and let's give kick off that and uh for the viewers uh please keep to the end to see the feedback session from the both sides. This is something you you will never got on the uh the actual interview. So this is the a big advantage of the our show as well. So let's go to the interview. Mh. Nice to meet you. uh so I suggest to split uh our interview into three parts. The first part will be about uh your experience uh what projects uh you worked on uh what achievements you are most proud of. The second part will be um about your hard skills. So I will ask different technical questions to understand your knowledge uh and understanding of ML principles. And the third part will be uh the coding task uh where I will check your Python knowledge if you are able to solve real problems. Mhm. Got it. As I said, let's start with the first section. Uh could you tell more about your experience? uh what projects uh you worked on and uh what um are your achieve what what your achievements are. Okay, Dennis. Uh, thank you also. Nice to meet you. Uh, about me. So actually most of the time uh I'm studying uh but uh at that uh studying steps especially like certification preparations it is uh some practice uh which I achieving like uh step by step and especially last two years I worked mostly with u GCP cloud especially with u generative AI capabilities. uh I I I was working in the company uh who is like um how to say it uh integrator on the market and they are working with uh different vendors. So uh I was working as preale engineer for uh GCP cloud and especially generative AI and my tasks it was mostly like to talk to client to understand uh what they want to achieve uh by this new technology actually and most of the time I was working on PC's uh like proof of concept of some business idea to understand is it possible to implement or not uh and uh actually it was not a lot of production coding but uh last half of year actually I'm working on some internal product with uh like also generative uh artificial intelligence which is like generative and my task to adopt um create and adapt SQL agent which is kind of different um uh approach to pick up knowledge like most of LLM not LLM like generate generative applications with uh like uh private domain of data works like by semantic search and for me interesting the approach with structured data how can we work with it uh especially how we can combine it with semantic search so for the moment I'm approaching to the agentic flow in generative applications to combine these two I think great capabilities and uh also I'm like exploring ing uh that uh SQL generation uh agent which can talk to like databases or to local files uh which have structured data. So there is um at the moment my main task and uh my main field of work. Okay. Uh got it. Uh I wanted to ask about your experience with with GCP. uh what what services uh did you work with? What did they actually do for for for your clients and uh for for your solutions? Okay, actually there is uh one of interesting tool which is agent builder uh which helps to build aic uh applications from the box out of the box with some great capabilities there. before that to understand how does it work. I was learning uh dialogue flow uh there is also some framework to uh to build this connections between like uh intent of the person what he want and next it is uh like fall back from the program. So understand of this routin and intense and uh uh so it it was my place to understand how is everything uh works in NOP like from that side but also so from u this out of the box tool uh I started to use code to like to you customize uh that tasks and with code I common to be like famili familiar with lench chain there is great framework also to use this uh like to build this applications but about the tasks actually kind of tasks uh which I done it is search by the image in the like um database of the images u it is interesting task like I have it it it was a business task from the client and their task if some person took a photo of something and is it possibility to find this item in the store. So I used uh uh embeddings. No, especially I used like different cost. I created uh first of all I created the uh like description of that pictures and next stored the descriptions in vector base and next according to the new incoming image it was again decoded to the like description to have natural description and according to semantic search it was uh like picked up some information some similar images from vector base so kind of realization also chatboard B. I built chatbot to one of our uh customers and uh connected it to telegram. Also it was some new experience for me like new kind of UI which is possible to use to uh to talk to your agent or to your chatbot. Interesting tasks were also for one of our client they had uh their calls to call center uh recorded and my task was to pick up a text from that audio calls to understand is it positive, negative or natural. Also one of interesting task is to um it was some also customer who had a lot of typical documents from old time and their task was to recognize entities on that documents. So recognize the documents and uh as output uh LLM gave me uh JSON structured answer with uh all of that entities which I described which I need from that documents and uh actually with uh help of LLM it was really possible to achieve good results on especially big amount of data. uh so it was like kind of different uh tasks in different fields actually also okay so as I understood the the most of your experience is about generative AI so uh yeah you didn't work with traditional the traditional ML right so for example um computer vision or working with structured data uh I worked with that uh kind of tasks mostly on the trainings. So uh I'm preparing like for ML engineering for GCP and uh the same like uh uh ML engineer for Azure there is a lot of tasks especially on playbooks uh where it it was possible for me some option to get some experience with traditional ML and a lot of theory of course uh also pick it up from there. Yes, but uh directly actually I have lack maybe of experience with uh like production grade ML systems. Okay, got it. Yeah, sounds sounds good. Um yeah, I think uh we are ready to move to the second part. Let's begin with uh the example. uh let's assume okay we we have uh we we have a product and uh for example we we've already gathered the business requirements uh we translated them into the ML objectives uh data engineers uh have helped us to collect the required data and now your task as an ML engineer uh to to to to sample from this data and to label this data for actual ML model training. Um and my first question is what sampling methods uh to get training data do you know? So we have like uh raw data right and we need uh to have some samples uh from the data for our next steps correct. No not necessarily raw data. is uh this data can can be uh already cleaned uh by data engineers. But for example, there is a huge amount of data and it might be expensive to train the model on all of this data and you want you want to get a sample of them uh uh a sample of it and train your model on this sample. And what are the strategies to sample this data? So the model training is efficient and the model will uh will perform as expected. Okay, I understand. So there is sampling from uh the data. I know one of the approach maybe simplest one it is uh like randomized uh pick up when all of our data have like equal opportunity to be picked up to our sample and it is kind of statistical uh method also it could be options like uh al kind of random but maybe more systematic uh sampling when we uh have some groups and uh pick up some element from that group and next with some step we are just picking up that element from that subgraphs. So it it is important to know that we have all of important uh data right for our sample and in that case it is stratas common uh game like stratify sampling uh when we have subgroups especially uh when we have some subgroups which is represented uh with low amount of uh represent like of examples. Uh it could be one of the option to pick up like uh all of uh important information from there also. What it could be just uh convenient sampling uh also to pick up all of the available uh data which we can use uh at the moment like without any specific approach to that. Well, what is the main drawback of this approach? uh just if you sample the data just by convenience so it's just convenience choice what is the main drawback it could be like uh how to say like fluidy data not important data or data which is uh uh have not good quality to study to learn our uh model on that data it could be like not representative or uh yeah so we are not sure in that uh case in the quality of our sample. Yeah, I would say the yeah the main disadvantage you you mentioned that uh the data can be not representative. So it doesn't represent the the population uh which this sample is yeah which the in instances uh are sampled from. Um so I I I understand what do you mean? Okay. And you also mentioned uh about just simple random sampling. Uh but what is the main drawback of it and compare the simple random sampling with the stratified sampling? Mhm. So in uh simple random sampling uh there is a possibility that we don't pick up some uh some examples entity which have important or which is like with good quality or could which could be important uh for representation of our data uh because we do it just randomly. And uh in the case of stratified uh sampling uh we have uh groups which is represented uh like their not population like uh some specific probably on that group and when we use stratified sampling we could be sure that all of the groups is represented in our sample. So uh when our model is learning uh we know that uh important u examples is represented there and uh we have like we covered all of our options I don't know spread of that data. Mhm. Okay. Yeah. I think it makes sense. Um let's then talk about um data labeling process. So do you know the difference between hand labels and natural labels? Yes. uh hand labels. It is I think it is probably main approach especially historically when person some uh human take an example and uh assign some label to that example and uh in natural labels uh it is different approach when u we have some data which is uh like added bonus to our uh data they have already some information like it could be kind of timestamp inte data or it could be I don't know part of the name of the file which could be used by the model uh or in that kind of labeling it could be used to assign some simple maybe uh pre-labeled I don't know maybe it is possible to use for prelabeling like to pick up some information to categorize it for the moment so it is some additional information that come to us with our examples is correct. I I would say for Yeah, you you have clearly described the hand labeling. Yeah, I think uh it's it's obvious that people label the data manually. Uh but regarding natural labels um yeah I think uh uh you were going in the wrong direction because actually yeah I I will provide the example. Let's assume there is a recommendation system that recommends uh different movies or products uh uh that the user users will mostly like. Y and uh uh we can measure uh the the effectiveness of the recommendation system by I don't know the simple example of whether the user the the user click on uh this this product or movie or not. Uh so actually if the user clicks uh on this product uh we log this information and actually we obtain the natural label that this recommendation is good enough to be clicked and then we can reuse this data for for from for model training. So actually we receive the feedback from from the system uh actually whether the us the users click on the these products or not and we then we can reuse this data for model retraining. So this is uh the the nature of natural natural labels. They are derived automatically uh by the system. So it is kind of like additional information right which we can achieve from from our systems. Uh it's not like additional information it's just uh by by nature. So we we show our products. Okay. Let's let's assume we we are building the recommendation system and we just suggest um as a first iteration it's a simple rule-based system. We recommend products uh based on popularity and that's it and we uh we don't consider the the user interests uh and so on and uh when we show this products uh user users either click on these products or not and then if the user uh if the user clicks on this product yeah we understand that the user likes this product and we can use it as a label. So this can be reused for uh for further model training and then we can replace the uh the simple rule-based system with the ML approach. Okay. I didn't work with uh them directly but I was thinking that maybe it is some algorithm algorithms like picking up uh that information from like from the uh source of uh data. Okay, maybe here I'm like bit wrong. Uh okay. So um maybe uh let's talk about the the problem of uh lacking the labels in in our training data. Let's assume we we we have data but we don't have enough uh labels for model training. Yep. Uh do do you know some methods how yeah how we can overcome this issue in order to prepare the label data set uh for for further model training. Uh okay except except um hand labeling because it might be uh it might be expensive and it it might be slow. Okay. What other methods do you know? Well, I know that it is also possible to use uh some algorithms of machine learning to create uh the new labels especially like uh unsupervised learning or self-supervised learning when these algorithms have possibility to like create new labels according to uh some limited maybe amount of uh available labels. It is in the case of uh semi uh supervised learning and in unsupervised learning I think also it is uh also used for like preparation of data for task for kind of classification tasks when it is by some uh attributes or some data uh by the information of data it can prepare or do some uh pre classification by some their attributes of the data. So we can uh by that algorithms we can create some kind of uh label data which will be not maybe very uh will not have quality uh enough but it will be useful for next steps like to uh to prepare uh good labels like good quality labels. Yeah. uh you are talking about clustering right? Yep. In the case of uh unsupervised learning. Uh yeah, but uh it it works a bit different uh because actually with unsupervised learning you can apply something like K means clustering and uh cluster your data into three or five clusters for example and then you need to analyze these clusters and assign uh the labels to them. So this how it works. So the the clustering algorithm by itself doesn't uh doesn't apply labels to the data samples. Mhm. So it just allows you to cluster. Yeah. So it allows you to cluster the data into the groups and then it simplifies the further analysis for you. So you can see the common patterns and you use these common patterns in the group in order to label the data. Maybe you you know something about transfer learning. So for example uh you mentioned that you had an experience with generative AI and you you are probably familiar with the concept of fine-tuning. So what does it mean fine-tuning and transfer learning? Uh yeah we we can use them interchangeably. Um but could could you tell more about it? So if I understand it uh correctly, we uh in some cases we have already available models which have uh their like way their structure uh in the system and we have options to use that uh data in our new system. Like in the case of fine-tuning uh we can use that knowledge and uh prepare some like do some tuning on that data uh by uh adding some new information or no how to say it. Uh so we can use that data which we already have uh especially weight matrix from one model to create another model uh without training but with usage of that uh data like from first model. Okay. So yeah to to summarize it so u we can take the model that was pre-trained on for another task and fine-tune it for for your task. This is this is often the case with um in the NLP field when we uh take the open source let's say uh bird uh model uh and then we can fine-tune it for your classification task or for sentiment analysis. Uh if for example [Music] um your texts are domain specific uh the model uh could not know uh about these specifics of your domain and you can uh label your label your data and then fine-tune uh already pre pre-trained model in order to uh solve your task. Actually I used fine tuning on the like uh education uh cases when it was oh not actually one uh time also for the client uh we did fine-tuning when we needed a kind of structured output uh when so it was uh task or problem when the model didn't give uh didn't give u output uh in that form which we wanted even with like uh from tuning. So we used fine-tuning and especially some corpus of data especi special for that business for that customer to finetune that model and if I understand uh correctly so transformer or no u you asked it about uh transition uh learning which we can to transfer learning this is the same concept but more general because uh yeah yeah as I transfer learning and fine-tuning. Yeah, we can use them interchangeably and it applies not only to to transformer models. Uh it can be applied to computer vision tasks when we uh takes something like uh restnet uh new neural network architecture and then we can fine-tune the dense layer in order to classify images. So it doesn't apply only to NLP. It can be applied to to to other areas of machine learning. So just the in in its core uh it's a technique when the model was was pre-trained for one task uh on the big corpus of data and then we can use uh much much smaller data set and this is why it resolves data labeling problem. So we don't need a lot of data samples labeled data samples in order to train our model. we can just fine-tune the existing one. Okay, I understand. So it it is also in the case when we have not labels it not not have not limited amount and it is one of the approach. Mhm. Exactly. Okay, I think we can move to the next question. Uh let's shortly talk about uh feature engineering. Um what feature engineering um techniques do you know? Mhm. Uh so when uh we ready to not ready when we want to learn our model we need some futures and uh it is future engineering techniques depends from kind of data. For uh numerical data we can use normalization right for categorical data we can use other approach uh kind of one hold encoding. Um so we need kind to do this uh futures useful for our system and it is one of the uh option like with timestamps uh data we can also use uh we can pick up some useful information and is kind of uh one hot I think uh encoding uh when we can pick up date uh or months or week some special information from that information Right. Uh also we can create new uh futures from existing data by some manipulation especially like with longitude longitude uh futures. It is like coordinates which we can get or opposite from the uh like location in the world. Uh what about handling missing values? uh missing values actually is a problem for machine learning and uh we have two main uh approaches. One of them is just to delete that uh data which have not uh which have missing values. It could be um so it is some approaches also it could be like deleted table or deleted rows with missed values and al also uh other approach it is uh importation of data. So according to some statisticals uh statistic approaches it could be uh like filling of the data by um some average not yeah maybe some average uh data like model median uh kind of that also it could be uh interpolation used to increase uh set not increase Uh, sorry. Like to to to find uh Okay. Yeah. Uh, Mal, I think it's enough. Uh, let's maybe could you compare the deletion and imputation, what are their pros and cons? Yeah. So, yeah. In in the case if we are deleting uh information, deleting rows, it is possible that we delete some uh important futures and so we are limiting some information uh in our database. In the case of imputation, we left the size of our data the same and just fill in missed values by some maybe temporary values or some useful informative values for us which is like statistically correct. Uh yeah, I think the problem with imputation uh it's like we can add noisy data. So yeah we can derive the statistics but uh it's not necessarily related to the uh to the sample that we uh apply a imputation on. uh yeah this data could be not very correct right so it could be noise from uh that data if so it's just an assumption it's just an assumption we derive this assumption from from the statistical distribution for example and just replace the replace the missing value with this uh uh with this assumption for example with the with the mean so for example uh med uh medium income We can derive the average of all incomes that are available in our data set but it's not necessarily true for the one particular um sample uh where this uh this value is missing. Mhm. And uh if I understand correctly it is uh like more hard maybe uh imputation is more difficult process than uh just deletion right so we should understand is it does it work or not for our case of course yeah and uh this is why when you have missing values you need to investigate why uh they are missing uh because they can be missing completely at random and if there are couple of cases uh completely uh random missing values then you probably can just delete them. Uh but for example uh if there is a correlation for example um you have some data samples with medium in income and this medium income is missing but uh medium income uh can be missing because I don't know more rich people don't want to like uh expose their revenue. Mhm. Yeah. show the public data. So this is what you should keep in mind and uh the main uh the main knowledge is required for feature engineering and actually I would say uh how well you handle uh the features uh and missing values uh the more accurate the model could be. Yeah, if I understand it's really important. Uh yeah, because like how how you prepare your data uh it really quality of your model will depends from it. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Uh okay, great. I think uh let's talk about maybe the training process. Uh what is the bias variance tradeoff uh during training? Yep. So bias and variance it's kind of errors which we achieve at the moment of uh like producing our model especially when we have like uh when our model trained on uh trained data. If it is a very simple uh algorithm we use for complex data, it could be uh we can we can achieve bias uh errors uh that data is so complex and uh our system can't handle it on the normal case and uh in the case of variance it is like question how good it is adopted after training to the like real world data and uh Okay. Uh and variance there. So it is like uh parameter to understand how well uh our model is uh like generalized for new data. U maybe it is uh not not very clear. So no you you you uh you are moving into the right direction. But I would say uh yeah the you said that we can take the simple model and it can uh it might not learn the the patterns from the complex data. Yeah. But this is the case where you will have the big variance in the training uh because the uh uh the errors between the actual values and the predicted values will be uh will be too big. Yeah. Uh I agree. So it is high variance. So the trade off to find algorithm maybe or approach to have uh approximately low variance and bias but uh their uh relationship is like opposite. So when we have low bias usually we have higher variance and opposite. Mhm. So in that case uh there is a task to find appropriate algorithm to uh to understand to to have possibility to work with that complexity and to produce good uh predictions. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. It makes sense. Um okay. Uh another question regarding model training. Um uh what do you know about ensemble learning? and seo learning. Uh so it is one of the approach in machine learning where where we use not only one model uh for our task when we prepare like set of models which produce better uh output or better final result than uh any like one model and in that case what I know it is uh some approaches like boosting uh begging and probably staking and uh and their difference is like uh approach how they work with that uh models. So in the case of begging uh it is uh it could be like one set of data but separated on different groups and different models will be learned on that uh set of data uh that data will be exchanged. Part of that will be for training reason and part of that it will be for validation reason and uh these models will be uh trained separately and next uh for the final result they will produce uh answer like together. So it could be maybe kind of voting uh in the classification tasks right what is the biggest votes for like that uh output or it could be maybe some uh approximation of the results in the uh like regression tasks right in the case of boosting uh it is different approach when models uh learn like Yeah, learned uh one by one. So one is started and have some limitation maybe some errors and second model is learning and trying to improve or to overhead uh like to handle this uh errors from the first model. uh and uh yeah in the uh stacking uh I think it is just uh it is kind of a lot of models uh working together to create some grand model I don't know like to to create master model uh but maybe not like that uh so our approach to achieve some uh one great model like uh master model uh by the aggregation of different models the same time. Um okay. Um yeah, I think it's enough. Uh let's then move to the deployment part. [Music] Um what do you know about the difference between batch prediction and online prediction? And c can you tell more about use cases where batch prediction is more appropriate and where online prediction is more appropriate? Yes. So batch prediction it is a kind of prediction of the p not prediction of the pocket is a uh prediction which works on the huge amount of uh data probably. So it is uh not should be done in the time like it should not be done fast but uh it is badge or like b chunk of uh tasks which should be done. not very important at which time but it could be uh it it is necessary a lot of probably not a lot uh but uh yeah okay a lot of computation for that kind of task in uh real time prediction or uh stream prediction uh it is timesensitive so we can uh do prediction our model can do prediction near real time so data just arriving here uh to the model and model ready to produce the answer in the real in the batch we can schedule this uh job for later or it could be some triggers to do that job. I I have some practice practical cases like when I was working with the task to recognize documents and it was like batch of documents. It was not very important uh to done it like immediately. I just started that job when it is convenient and especially in clouds it is possible to use some cheap computation to produce this uh workloads. Uh and it is done in batch and uh when uh I created a chatbot uh when it is question in real time from the user to the model it is streaming uh prediction when model answers at the same time approximately at near time. So it is for real time analys analysis or like conversation to the model. Mhm. Yeah. Uh I think it's uh sounds reasonable. Um okay. Uh actually also regarding the model deploy deployment process. So uh in general we we have two options. We can either deploy the model uh to the cloud or to the edge device just uh deploy to your smartphone smartphone or to the desktop application. C can you compare pros and cons of this uh of this approaches? Uh yes. So actually cloud development is very popular because it is giving uh like a lot of opportunity especially what I like there it is scaling uh when it is a lot of users is uh approaching your like endpoint to talk to your model uh it can scale in the size and also it is management uh like u a lot of services in the cloud is managed uh automatically for you so you don't need to manage that infrastructure or kind of that especially also one of the plus uh that some of the models uh require a lot of computation and uh maybe some GPUs for that computation some storage some memory uh what is good in cloud in the case of deployment to but also it is some limitation actually in the cloud because we need to connect there we need internet connection uh in any case like to to knock their right to our model and uh what I had one of the problem with my clients about cloud uh there is data governance uh like uh uh they had some restrictions that data should not leave uh country area. In the case of age device uh development deployment sorry uh it is also some limitations like uh what I saw a lot of models they are really huge and it is uh difficult to use them on age devices because also they need uh like space they need memory they need uh uh some additional like resources for processing. Uh on other hand it is some techniques which can uh do models uh much smaller right to to use them locally and what is can you provide some examples uh of techniques that allows you to reduce the model size. Uh yes it is uh I think one of most popularities like quantization when we decrease precision of weights uh and according to that we have like not 32 bits like decimal uh and we have like 8 bit uh much much smaller. So it is kind of quantization when we decrease that size and also I know that uh it is distillation knowledge. I think it is like transfer uh knowledge which we were talking about like transferring knowledge and distillation knowledge when we from huge uh uh model we distill uh that it it waits but not all of them is important to continue like to have possibility to do that kind of task and prune also kind of some of the possibility to decrease the size of model but I think quantization may be main one in that case and uh in the age devices uh also it is some plus is uh opposite to cloud that we can work with our private data locally without internet uh with our model and is like more uh if it is some restrictions for data usage uh edge devices deployment could be uh more suitable for that kind of tasks. Okay. Yeah, sounds reasonable. Uh, thank you. Um, okay. Let's assume we we've deployed our model to production environment. But uh machine learning life cycle uh never ends actually and you need to perform the model performance because um yeah there are different reasons why the performance of the model can decrease and one of them is data distribution shift. Uh could you please tell more about uh it? what does it mean and uh what techniques uh do you know uh for for detecting data distribution shifts? Okay, about data distribution ships. It is a problem which we can uh facing when we prepared like we trained our data our model on some data and in a real world scenario when our model is already in production it could be some changes in the data nature like so the the situation changed and uh the real data and data from the training they have like different not parameter like different quality especially like okay if we trained our model on some historical data and at the moment we are going to the market and on the market already some new uh contributor maybe or some company which provide new product and the behavior of customers it is changed. So in that case we have this uh uh data drift and uh to understand it we need to monitor the performance of our model to see if it is uh degradate. It could be also some feedback from the users like some maybe up some down and uh to understand this data drift of monitoring and logging it is one of the way and I know it is some statistical approaches to understand is like data have similar points or not points like is data have similar futures or not. uh I didn't work with them uh directly but I remember I I think kind of them is uh uh I don't remember names of statistical methods but uh someone with I think kind kind of so it is kind of that uh like statistical ical approach to understand the difference or similarity in the data. Mhm. Said what is else could be used there? I think okay also it could be other models uh other kind of artificial intelligence used for that to understand the drift to see the difference in the data like kind of anomaly detections. Mhm. Uh yeah okay. Uh yeah we don't have a lot of time to to discuss it I think. uh so probably I will cast I will ask a couple of questions about uh MLOps and then we will move to the coding task and my first question would be okay let's assume you you have um a team of machine learning engineers data scientists and um in order to make their work efficient enough uh you need to standardize the development environment So uh the the environment uh is um reproducible in a way that the environment is reproducible uh and uh uh so you don't encounter the situation when the code works in uh on one machine but doesn't work on another one. uh what would you do in order to standardize the development environment and uh streamline this uh uh development workflow? Okay, I think it is very similar like to devops this paradigm of microservices where we can use uh containers uh environments and also additional uh like approaches like for standardization like virtual environments for our dependencies or kind of like in Python requirement text file to collect all of the dependencies to keep them consistent and especially with ization uh we can achieve like the same environment on any device uh in any situation. So we just set there like operating uh system kind of if we need or uh like dependencies and uh libraries like uh everything what we need there we can uh like have it standardized in uh one container. So we can call it container right and next uh it give us possibility also to scale or to reproduce it on any system because it is like close environment inside of this uh container. Yeah, I think uh what you said about the containers uh yeah container containerization is uh is beneficial of course uh especially for deployment and autoscaling but uh yeah usually let's assume you you're just a developer you open an ID and you just write the code you yeah you don't usually um make adjustments in your code in the docker container. So the docker container is usually the the last phase when you uh package your code into the container and this container can be run on on the different machine but uh during development yeah you you mentioned that you can u log your requirements and uh what's important um and also maybe uh system control version systems also is useful for that right like when we can uh control uh our code and uh like keep it steady and collaborate with the team before and also it is kind of automation there. Yeah. And I I also wanted to mention about locking requirements. It's very important because if you just uh list the the names of of different packages and libraries without the exact version, uh it might be the case that whenever a new team member joins your team and uh pulls uh the repository into a uh their local machine, they can encounter the situation that uh the environment is not reproducible because uh uh when they uh install the dependencies, they can install the different versions from what you have on your machine. Okay. Yeah, I I understand. And it can break actually the the whole process the application might not Yeah. might not work. Actually, I saw it on uh some I don't remember it. it is like kind of different approach to store and log uh our dependencies. Uh I don't remember just how does it go but in my case mostly I use uh like requirement text with uh versions. I don't know is it like appropriate approach or not in that case. Yeah I'd say it's completely workable. You can just do pip freeze uh run pip freeze command in order to lock your dependencies. But there are different tools. I actually Yeah, I I'm a fan of UV, the last development uh uh for for for Python ecosystem. Mhm. Uh yeah, and it actually allows you to um uh it replaces all the tools for the Python ecosystem and combines them into one tool and you can easily lock your dependencies uh manage your package, manage your project. So uh this is a I think it it's a very good tool for for standardization as well. Uh and another way I would say uh you can you can go further. You can actually use the cloud environment for development and uh yeah and force uh force the team to use the cloud environment. So uh and it allows the system administration team not to use a lot of not to manage a lot of devices. uh and control what what's installed there and so on. So you just have one standardized environment in the cloud and uh yeah but of course there is a a con of that uh cloud uh requires spending money. Oh yeah. Okay. And uh I think we can move on to some generative eye questions. Umh and let's talk about shortly prompt engineering. Uh what prompt engineering techniques do you know how to uh get the better results from language models? It is some approaches and some recommendations uh what I know recommendations maybe more useful for like wide uh spread of uh people who use generative uh AI applications. So it is uh some kind of recommendation when when you talk to your data you should be kind of specific you should be objective uh you should keep in mind oh you can uh give a role for the model to like uh shorten or or narrow in uh the field where uh the model will look for that information. uh specific also it is possible to provide context uh and if we are talking about and okay context one of the important uh thing I think for about instructions and also it could be instruction for output type uh which you want to receive. So you can uh especially also you can give the some examples as a context. So in that case with examples it is already kind of uh uh technique for prompt engineering it calls uh like one hot uh encoded not encoding one one shot prompting yes or multi-shot prompting when you give the examples to the model. Uh so zero short prompting it is just prompt without examples. Uh it is possible for the moment now to talk to model and uh receive the uh chain of th of that model and uh this technique it calls like chain of ths. Uh it is possible to achieve just to by adding maybe some uh data to the prompt where you ask like think step by step or provide the reasoning of your answers. uh what it could be also is uh some modern approaches uh additional like uh chain of thoughts chain of uh something yeah I I I think it I think it's enough uh okay yeah so it is really techniques how you can improve and uh it is really big difference in the outputs depending from the from your approach to talk to the model and actually rag also kind of prompt engineer ing which is used uh to achieve good result from the model. I wouldn't say it's a prompt engineering technique. It's actually the pattern uh how the uh generative application uh might be built. Uh I I think maybe yeah uh probably you are correct. I mean that uh okay when we are picking up context uh and give to the model uh rake gave us our possibility like to create additional content to give to the model but yeah probably framework no no it's I think I I think it's acceptable acceptable answer um okay uh can you describe in detail how the rack system uh might look like. So when we have like base models or like uh general models kind of GPT or Germany or cloudy uh they are have limitations. They have only knowledge which they uh was training on or which they give by uh context. So they can have limited uh some some limitation and when we are talking about business usage uh I think it is one of the main direction probably for businesses to adopt uh generative artificial intelligence to their knowledge to their like uh knowledge base. So all of them have information and uh rag uh gives the possibility to use this knowledge base with uh uh generative AI. Uh how does it work? It is uh that uh combin it is a combination of retriever and generation. So uh when we have our documents uh as example one document like PDF of document we send it uh to the system system chunks it to the smallest parts that smallest parts uh next uh how to say decoding in the vectors. It is uh not just text right in that case text coming to be the numbers like floating numbers vector of floating numbers which cause embedding and that embeddings machine already can read and uh understand. So that embeddings is uh our knowledge from them or yeah from them we are building our knowledge base knowledge base or this embeddings will be stored in vector database which have possibility to store them to separate them like on their fields or their space in the database and it gives the possibility according to the new incarbon uh embedding to find similar embeddings uh like some neighbors of that embedding. Uh similarity search it calls right and by the semantic no maybe it is semantic search uh it give us possibility to find information according the semantic information of uh that part of uh text if it is text. So in our case when the user asks some question this question is going to be also converted to embedding uh the same system as before we converted our text and uh according to that embedding in our vector database we are looking for similar documents from the base and next we give to the LLM our original question from the uh user and that parts of documents which be retrieved additionally and we produce like provide them as a context and it is also some uh additional options maybe to finetune like we can rerank or check most uh like appropriate parts which we picked up from the database to provide to LLM not all of the information but maybe just most relevant or yeah more relevant information we should need and uh also we have limitation of LLMs especially with context window the amount of information which we can give to the LLM and uh in the case of rack we are like handling that problem also we just put all of the necessary information to provide good answer um okay but you've mostly described the case of using vector databases and semantic search Uh but uh is the rack limited to the semantic search or yeah we can use something else we can uh we can use yeah uh yeah moon okay um so I told databases vector database is kind of new actually if I understand it correctly uh database but it is also libraries or could be libraries which work with embeddings but some of databases vector database is built on the base of uh like older databases and they uh can combine some options. So it could be semantic uh search uh especially with how other type uh like direct search by the when the word which we are looking for will be also checked in the index for the uh exact yeah there are different techniques there there is a sign similarity uh we can also use uh nearest neighbors al okay you you're asking about uh our approach inside how how we can find this information right actually I asked uh yeah more uh how to say it u so you're talking mostly about the the text the and the embedding and the semantic search but you also uh mentioned in the the beginning that you were working on the text to SQL problem. Yep. Uh can we just translate the text into SQL and make a search in this just classical relational database in order to enrich our prompt with structure data? It is yeah sorry. So it is other approach and uh in that case we need some additional data like not uh data from database but we need or maybe data from database we need of our data to create this uh queries but it is also possible. So we give the information about our table to our LLM. LM can produce SQL query according to that hammer. Next it could be executed in the database or actually it could be also in memory if it is not huge amount and according to the result of SQL we provide to LLM the query and the result to get final result and it could be actually tables or also graphical review or graphical view which could be also useful. Mhm. Yeah. actually. So actually to to to summarize the rack we can say that actually the main part uh is we can enrich uh with the external information but our prompt and ask the model to generate the answer but it it might be like structured data from the relational database. It might be um uh it it it might be semantic search when we uh search for the similar text in the vector store or it might be even like searching the internet. We can search for for example if we ask the question about what are the latest financial news or what are the latest news in the sport uh the LLM has a limitation uh because it might be uh it might be trained on the data until I don't know 2024 and now we want to yeah to get the news information from the internet and we can so actually it's it's called an agentic rack when We have multiple choices where we can retrieve information in order to enrich our prompt. I understand. In any case, it is like retrieval of additional information. Actually, it's very generic thing. It's not only related to the uh the vector search. I agree. Understood. Yeah. Didn't think about it. Uh but yeah, got it. Uh okay. Okay. And probably the last question uh uh for this part [Music] um when is it beneficial to fi fine-tune the language model? Mhm. Uh I understood. So if we you can you can even compare for example rack and and and fine-tuning uh as two approaches or maybe we can even combine them for for to to resolve your task. uh from from my experience what I remember like from education part when we can't achieve the result which we need uh from our LLM especially like when we have outputs which uh we not expected we are expected one not we are expecting kind of output and we can't uh achieve it even with prompt engineering we even with rag uh we can use fine-tuning to achieve that task. And it could be kind of okay uh type of answer uh if we are trying to achieve some uh short answer and especially uh structure it in some way. If we can't achieve it uh from uh prompt engineering, we can use fine-tuning for that. Or also if we have some specific data and uh it is some specific terminology which is uh like specific for our field we can use uh that data to fine-tune our uh model to like increase the knowledge about that terms uh to use or also maybe it is u u some specity of your business and uh you have some examples how it should be answer it on the questions like if you have some golden standard uh how it should be it is possible also to fine-tune model like for that reason like to achieve the results which you are looking for okay yeah um yeah the that makes sense uh okay I think we are ready to move to the final part of our interview uh the practical task. So actually yeah you have a list of dictionaries uh if you scroll down you you can see the example yeah example input y uh so you have the list of dictionaries and uh each dictionaries uh can contains to uh two keys but yeah it can be any any number of keys and one of these keys uh uh is flex name and flex, right? Yeah. Uh so your task to uh is to write the function that extracts all unique flags across uh all entries. Um then you add a new key to each dictionary for every flag and the value should be one if the user uh has this flag and zero if the user does doesn't have this flag. Uh so actually you you do something like one hot encoding in in this example. uh then you need to remove uh the the flax uh key and replace uh with uh one hot encoding. You can see actually the expected output. Yes, I'm looking now for uh input and output. So uh we have list of uh dictionaries, right? And next we will have like set of lists. Uh yeah exactly. So uh your function has to return the updated uh list of dictionaries with one hot encoding and the list of all unique flags uh that are available in this in this list. So here they are like string right and uh we uh will provide them as uh key and value. Mhm. Yep. Yeah. And uh the these flags uh uh must be sorted uh alphabetically. Okay. Uh I will pick up text input. Okay about uh sorted. So uh it should be probably not list it should be set in our case logs set to have their unique and have okay I can sort it later. [Music] Okay. So, first we should pick up our line and check it right for entry in data. [Music] If three So for the line in our data if flags is there in entry and we have this flag so it is not empty lock room entry flags right. Uh could be possible but it is flex it is a line. Okay. Wow. So we have them unique and we need just sorted right. Uh Sorry a moment just checking is I'm correct here or not premium test user. Okay. Uh with that part it looks like it is working. Now we need new list. Okay. Now we are iterating through the lines to pick up to create new dictionary right we need first key and additional keys. So first key new line is Uh okay M I think uh maybe you you can just explain uh with your voice what uh you're going to do next. Um okay right uh so we are uh uh for for for the moment we have the list of flags right and we are creating new list where it will be uh dictionaries dictionary with name uh parameter and dictionary with uh keys uh of the entities of flags and now I need to pick up from original data uh this uh string of flags and uh according that uh pick up uh each of them and uh for available I want to map it as one and if they are like not uh no no I in my decision I think that uh I will use uh all flags this my parameter uh with all of the flags and next iterate through the uh line uh flag parameter. If this uh flags is there inside uh I will mark them as one and if they are not inside of uh my uh parameters I will mark them as uh zero. Right? And next uh and it will be added as the keys and values to our uh list of um dictionaries and uh it should be it should looks like uh what you asked about if I'm correct right so uh we will have uh list where every line is dictionary with key name with key name of the flag uh flags uh different flux will have different key and their values will be zero or one. Yeah, I I may say that uh yeah the the flow in general is is correct. Yeah, there are a couple of edge cases that yeah uh we may cover here in the function but we don't have enough time to discuss it. Uh yeah but in general yeah I I think I I understand uh what you are going to do. Yeah guys please don't don't finish this up because I I have more questions to you uh not not not part of the of the interview. more something it's it's not going to happen in the real world or or it's going to happen in in a week or so but now we are in in the show so we have opportunity to have like the small feedback on both sides which I think will be really useful uh so first of all I would like to ask how it goes how did you like the structure how did you feel like what was the the most maybe complex question and what answers did you like and how was actually Dennis for you as a like uh the person who was asking but I saw that Dennis was helping a lot and like how did it felt and yeah how it went for you. Thank you for that experience. Actually, it is interesting. It is cool. Do you know the field uh like covers a lot of uh information and uh yeah to be prepared for 100%. This is not simple especially it is more uh more simple when uh you have some practical uh knowledge on some of the questions of the parts and of course if it is just uh role information in your brain like from education it is not simple to understand but uh especially like question about rag or some generative AI capabilities it is more interesting or maybe more simple for me because most of the time I'm working with uh that part and uh yeah so I I'm happy and also on the task on the final task u maybe need uh some time to understand to to think how to do it uh correct way let's not forget that you were actually knowing in your mind that you are recorded so I think and you're going to be in YouTube so I think this is something that it's actually can put some pressure on you. So I think you were like you were doing great. I think it really Thank you. I hope my mind is actually was blowing like during your session. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you Dennis. Thank you Alex. Thank you. Um like what what do you think? What is like I would like to ask you two things. The first of of all it's like official feedback. how you actually would do it in the like in the real world. Yeah, this is one part and the other part would be really nice if you will do the make the feedback like as you were Mahila's friend because I think it's really useful for the people to hear both sides of that. Okay. Okay. So the the official one uh of course the there are some some gaps in knowledge um because yeah machine learning field is very huge and you need uh uh to educate yourself a lot and so on. But I think uh yeah um at the same time in many cases Mihilo clearly shared his thoughts and uh the core ideas uh so it's a big advantage um he was also in the right way in the coding task uh and yeah I would recommend so Yeah, I think Mikail is not ready for for for for a senior position I would say but I think for the middle one yeah he he is ready to participate in in the projects and and complete the tasks. Um I would recommend to uh structure the knowledge in different um I would say uh in different stages of the ML life cycle like uh data preparation, data labeling, feature engineering. Uh these are very important concepts because ML is not like limited only to generative AI. Uh there is computer vision. uh the there is uh working with structured data because sometimes it's uh it's better to just use a simple algorithm that everybody understands and it's easy to interpret the results of the model and actually it might be less heavy weighted uh for inference in production. So uh it's not necessary to deploy the very complex neural network. Uh it might be costly uh for inference it and it might be less interpretive. Uh so yeah my recommendation is to strengthen the knowledge in different uh areas of machine learning conceptual knowledge. Uh but yeah I think it's evolutional process in education. So I I I think you are in uh in the right way uh to become a good professional. Uh so this is how I would do the the official um provide the official feedback and just as a friend um yeah actually I there is no big difference to be honest because yeah I always try to to provide the direct feedback and uh highlight the um the areas to improve. Uh but uh yeah my my personal recommendation is try to not focus on only the fancy stuff but also try to focus on like uh the very fundamental stuff like uh data preparation uh data labeling because these are like uh dirty parts of the process but they are very important because yeah you know uh there are a lot of algorithms uh that you can apply to to to your data. But yeah, the algorithm might be very fancy, very complicated and very cool, but yeah, if you feed bad data into this algorithm, yeah, your solution will not work. and also the deployment part. Uh so when you develop your model, it's not the the end of life cycle. You need to deploy, you need to maintain and you need to uh establish good MLOps best practices in order to um streamline the ML development and deployment process. Mhm. So yeah, just my personal recommendation, focus on like less fancy things because uh they are fundamental ones and uh the this is what will differentiate you from others who um who are in the race to in the race to like to fancy stuff like generative LLMs. Yeah, sometimes even a simple rule-based system can work better than the ML one. Thank you. Yeah, I I I wrote down uh some some of the points from your recommendation. Uh thanks Dennis. Yeah, we'll follow and uh know where to where to move. So there we have it. It's another mock interview series completed. If you enjoyed this video and found it helpful, don't forget to uh check out the links in the description to learn more about Njax and how it's transforming the way we work. Also, make sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel and share this video with anyone who is uh going to have something like that in the future or just want to check out how it can be in the real world. Uh this was Alexi Malachina. This was Dennis with us and Mihilo. Thank you guys and thanks for watching. See you next time. [Music] [Music]