[music] Hi, I'm Sudhan Shu. I'm currently a senior engineering manager with Atlassian. Previously, I was the staff software engineer at Meta and principal software engineering manager at Microsoft. I received 50 plus offers from big tech companies across the US, Canada, Australia, India, Europe, Japan, etc. And I have interviewed thousand plus candidates in my career. Today, we will be covering a new and exclusive system design question which is not there on the internet. It got asked in one of the leading fang companies recently. Generally, fang companies keep updating their cushion bank. So, let's get started on this new and exclusive system design question. [music] [music] All right. So, we are going to discuss a new question design sponsored ads experience at google.com. So, this is a very vague and ambiguous problem statement provided to you by your interviewer. And think of it that you are a product manager talking to a customer figuring out the requirements in order to design sponsored ads experience at google.com. [music] So first we'll collect the functional requirements for this question. As a candidate my first question would be hey what are sponsored ads? So sponsored ads let retailers advertise their products on Google and when a user like you and me click on it, Google will earn referral fees, right? So as an example, if I search iPhone in my browser, you can see uh sponsored ads, you know, on the site. My next question will be, can a sponsored ad contain products from different sellers? Yes, it can. And can a sponsored ad contain several products from one seller? For example, there can be multiple iPhone products from Amazon.com. And yes, the answer is it can it can have products from multiple vendors as well as it can have multiple products from a single vendor in the ad. Is there a ranking system involved that selects which retailers to show in the sponsored ads? Yes, there's a ranking system. Let us say it's simple. It's based on the clicks. If the user clicks on the ad, the score of that ad will increase by five points and eventually uh this will be a feedback loop cycle that will keep on running and as and when you know ad is scoring more and more points it will have more probability being shown in the sponsored ads for that product. How many sellers and products we're talking about? Let's say 100 million sellers and 1 billion products. [music] Now let's go over the non-functional requirements. We want a system which is highly available at least four lines of availability and what does availability mean here that sellers submitting the products for sponsored ads you know system should be available to intake those products in our system and process them users searching for a product let's say I go to google.com I search iPhone and I should be getting the sponsored ads right so the system should be highly available and we can have a stretch goal of 59 of availability eventual consistency so when you explain these non-functional requirements you have to be very clear in terms of explaining what does it means it mean in this current context right so eventual consistency here means rendering the ads based on the score when a user one searches maybe he'll get result ABC another user gets you know BCD and let's say user one again searches he or she gets BCD but let's say BCD are the eventual consistent ads results based on the updated scores so that's what I mean eventual consistency here the latency and score processing for the ads after ingestion of the clicks. Let's say the SLO is 3 minutes at P99. Latency in rendering ads when user searches the ad on the browser. P99 less than 200 milliseconds. Latency in new ad processing. Let's say a seller or a retailer is submitting a ad product. We'll call it P99 as 1 minute. Durability. We don't want any data loss in our pipeline. When user clicks on an ad or a seller or retailer submits an ad product, we need to ingest that. We don't need to lose the data in our systems and in the pipeline. The system should be fall tolerant. It should be scalable. Scalable here means that when the traffic is increased, the load is increased, number of users, number of sellers, number of ads per seller. Our system should be able to handle those cases. Now, if we get some time, we can define here are the things below the cut line like the system should be frugal or crossfriendly. We need to take care about the security in the system because we're dealing with, you know, user data, you know, seller data, etc. So, we need to make sure our system is secure, but we'll get to that if only the time permits. [music] Now, design doesn't come for free. Scalability doesn't come for free. We need to do some data calculations or back of the envelope calculations. Right? Here, your interviewer is expecting you to come up with some reasonable assumptions like how many daily active users, how many daily active advertisers you are thinking about, right? and you're building a scalable system. So they expect some good judgment from you on these numbers. So search TPS you know let's say the daily active users searching for a keyword keyword like iPhone let's say it's 10 million average search per user per day let's say is 10. So that means that 10 million daily active users multiplied by 10 divided by 10 to the^ 5. So usually one day has roughly 86,400 seconds but I have rounded it off to 10 to the^ 5 which is 100,000. So if you divide you know daily active users and number of search happening per day per user the answer is thousand requests per second. However peak can be 100x of that because usually when we see during the daytime in the geography whatever geography we are part of the calls are more than outside the business hours. So 100x uh translates to 100k request per second at the peak TPS. Now ad creation TPS let's assume daily active advertisers are 100k and average new ads per day per user is 10 or per seller in this case. So the TPS translates to 100k advertisers multiplied by 10 10 ads per advertiser divided by 10 ^ 5 which translates to 10 requests per second and again peak let's assume 100x so it's,000 per second. Now click events TPS for that let's again say okay you know daily active users we already called out you know 10 million and average clicks per user per day on the sponsored ads is 10 and this translates in a similar way 2,000 clicks per second and peak is 100k clicks per second storage let's say we need to store all this data for 10 years for audits compliance etc and we know that we have daily active advertisers as 100k and then 10 ads per advertiser per day and let's ballpark you know when one ad product we are storing in a database or storage layer it's 500 bytes we'll do the data modeling down the line but at this point in time we're just taking a ballpark estimate and then uh 365 days in a year you know we need for replication at least three copies and for 10 years okay we need to store the data this translates to roughly 5.475 475 tab of data we are talking about. It's good to talk about system properties now that we have given the done the back of the envelope calculations. The system seems to be more IO inensive network and storage IO. It doesn't seem to be a comput inensive system. We are not doing image processing or running heavy compute algorithms in our on our top of our processor. So the system seems to be more IO intensive rather than computer intensive.
>> [music]
>> Let's talk about the design. The highle design very very high level design which is 32,000 ft overview. So let's call you know this client is a user and this client is a seller or retailer. Okay. So we'll first go with this client you know seller or retailer submitting their new ads to our system. So our first layer will be an API gateway. The responsibilities of API gateway will be rate limiting to prevent us from denial of service attacks or distributed denial of service attacks, authentication, authorization and load balancing. So what happens is you know when uh they want to upload their ad product they need to provide a small image for that ad or a thumbnail right first it will get a pre-signed URL from the ad service and it will directly upload to the S3 object storage. We can use S3 in AWS or equivalent in Azure or GCP. So once it's uploaded it will send the whole payload. Hey what's the ad, what is the content of the ad, what is the product etc to the ad service and after that we have a ad creation topic on Kafka you know streaming system and we have a consumer of that Kafka and it will put that an ad record in a database. So as and when the record goes in the database we have a lambda in AWS or Azure function or equivalent in GCP running which is equivalent to for example triggers in relational database. Here we call it like DDB streaming you know in Dynamob case or equivalent we can have you know a function which is a serverless function which will process the new entry and it based upon that you know it will put the data in the cache so that the search is faster. We can read it from the cache for that product type what ads we have and before it adds to the database here we need to make sure uh for a new ad we add some by default some score for that ad and that is where you know we after the score is added and database has all the elements we process it through you know a serverless lambda or azure function and it goes to the cache in the cache will hold you know the top 20 for that product type for example or top 100 or top 25 right uh some very minimal number whatever you want to show in terms of sponsored ads you know based upon the score and let's go with a flow you know where a user basically clicks on an ad again through API gateway it will go go to click service and the clicks will be you know handled by a Kafka topic and there will be a consumer which is a clicks processor which will consume these clicks and based on the clicks incoming you know it will uh you know have some rules cached in it which will have some TTL time and it will allocate Hey, this ad is clicked. Let me give it you know plus 30, plus 50, plus 5, you know, whatever score scoring system we have and based upon the rules defined in the scoring system. And based upon that, it will update you know your ad score in the database. Again, as and when score is updated, you know, it will call the serverless lambda and again cache will be refreshed. Let's say you know this ad has got a good score and it comes in top 25 or top 100. then this cache will be updated just to hold the top 25 or top n entries for that product type. Now the last one is you know u a client user searching a product in browser then it will go to search service through API gateway first it will look into the cache hey is that product type in the cache let me get the results faster maybe top 10 top 30 depending on the screen we are using whether it's a you know laptop whether it's a mobile device or an app you know depending on that it can return the results right and if this cash hit doesn't go through then we have a cash miss scenario which means that for that product type will just call and the database and get the data from the database and render to the client. So this is a very 32,000 ft overview of the design very high level design. We will go into the internals we will understand the internals and we'll talk about various trade-offs. So let's jump into it. [music] Our first trade-off will be the choice of database. you know whether we are going with a relational database or a non- relational database right so in this case if you see we don't have a very hard transactional requirements we are just getting clicks and this click processor is updating the ad you know based upon the score updated score so it's not like you know several users in a concurrent fashion for example trying to update their bank account or some system where concurrency and transactions are important but in this case we just have clicks processor only as the only entity updating the ads score in the database. So we should be good, you know, with this model. So we don't want a strict transactional system here. You know data velocity volume is high by the way. So no SQL databases like Dynamo also support transactions. However, we don't need transactions in this case as I said. But any scaleout DB you know on the cloud like Dynamob or equivalent in Azure or GCP will work in this case. What about database sharding? So when we did some back of the envelope calculations above we notice our data storage is around 5.5 terabytes. Usually we do sharding if the data storage is more than 50 terabytes. So based upon the data storage in terms of terabytes we don't need sharding. However the right request which means like clicks number of clicks coming to our system at peak is 100k. Ad creation is at peak th00and per second. In total we have updates happening with 100 around 100k per second at peak. This doesn't do well if we don't shard our database. So sharding is required generally when write requests are more than 10k 15k or 20k per second. Hence in light of this you know number of write requests we're getting per second we'll be sharding our database. Next is synchronous versus asynchronous processing. So for the ad creation if you see we have a peak of thousand request per second. Now based upon that you might not just use a cafka it's not required to have a pups subub system uh you know sitting in you can just process the request you know create a ad in database and process it synchronously right so maybe cafka sitting in between can be an overkill right but however I thought um you know once we receive a new ad there might be several validation steps that needs to be executed if the ad is duplicate or not trust and safety compliance etc and hence I thought it might take more things to be done and we can process the ad asynchronously and customer experience will be better because u we can just process it asynchronously and we can say hey we received your ad we are going to process it and latency that they see on their side will be significantly lower but I mean there is no right and wrong answer in system design so you can still say I'll do synchronous processing given that number of requests is only thousand per second and as per requirements we are not given uh to handle the duplicate checks trust trust and safety issues etc. So you know if if you say I want to do synchronous processing because of this and that that will also work well in this case. Now for clicks if you see we have a peak of,000k 100,000 per second. Now async processing will be really good for processing the clicks because the meat of the problem is to let the user see the ads. Clicks we can process in an async way. you know it can decouple the processing of the clicks and we can also batch the clicks before we update the database. By consuming the clicks um in a way that hey we consume the clicks we batch them and then we make a one batch call to the database and that way we can reduce the load on the database we can do any number of things. So I feel it's good to do the clicks processing in async way and if our peak is even more than that let's say 1 million per second generally it would be better if we do an async processing. Now batching versus non-batching of the clicks. So we know that you know our latency SLO for processing you know the clicks and updating the ad score is 3 minutes. We can leverage this SLO right in a way that you can batch the clicks for example based upon 30 seconds or if the number of clicks we have got to process is 10,000 all of this is configurable right maybe 15 seconds or 1 minute you know whatever occurs faster you know based upon the time or number of clicks we have to process and then we can just aggregate the scores you know across the ads for example in 10,000 we have 5,000 clicks for one ad we can just create okay if the click yields into plus five for that ad and if there 5,000 clicks for ad one we'll have 25,000 as a score to be added for ad one and again you know this will reduce the load on the database and that's where you know it's good to do know the batch API call and batching will really help in this case what about caching so we have you know radius on memcache as our options so I'll prefer radius in this case because radius has some good data structures like sorted sets which we want to use we don't need to reinvent the wheel by implementing printing these in memcache. It's a very plain or vanilla cache. So, sorted set is a combination of hash table and skip list. So, hasht will have the entry which is the ad and the score for that ad and skip list will have you know the category which means for example iPhone and the sorted list of ads you know sorted by scores. And in terms of cache storage again we can do some back of the envelope calculation here. Let's assume we have 100,000 product types like um stationary, comic book, iPhone etc. And we want to store top 25 per product type. And let's assume record size is 1 KB per ad entry. And which translates to 100k product types multiplied by 25 and then 1 KB record size which is 2.5 GB which we can easily put in cache. So nowadays we have systems which can have 1 tab of cache easily. Yes, cache is expensive, but you know, we'll have faster results because it will be an in-memory processing and we can provide a better customer experience and reduce latency to our customers. [music] So, let's do some uh data modeling here. In terms of data modeling, if you see it, we have a ads table. We have ad ID which is the primary or partition key. We have a product ID, product type can be iPhone, we have a title for that ad, price for that ad, image which is a thumbnail for that ad, seller name, seller ID, score for that ad, some metadata, creation time and update time. We need to create index here. You know index here we are creating product type and score. So product type is the you know the partition key for that index and the score is the sort key. These are very dynamobb specific things but in general if you say I'm creating index on product type and score which will be good enough right because if you do the onion peeling things work in a similar way so why we need this index right because let's say we have a cache miss and cache is not having let's say if a product type iPhone let's say cash restarted or something happened with the cache or it's a product type not found in the cache for now then we have to fall back on the database in order to make sure our database queries are faster with low latencies we can we can just use this index. Hey, for this product type sorted by score, give me top 10, top 25, right? It's still better than searching, you know, the whole table and then finding out who are the top 25. So that way we are leveraging index for goodness. Now, if you see, I've selected ad ID as a primary key for the table, not the seller ID. I'm not storing all the seller ads or ad products in a single partition because I don't want hot partitions or non-uniform partitions, right? Because several sellers can have more than more ads or add products than other sellers and this will cause non-uniform partitions with ad ID being a primary key. You know we are making sure that we are creating uniform partitions in this case. [music] So now comes the interesting part of the question which is we'll do several deep dives. Our first is how to handle the case when a user searches gifts for 10 year old. And before we go into deep dives, you know, usually your interviewer expects you to identify you know some good areas around your design and uh you know they expect you to find most interesting components of your design and then you at least deep dive into few of them right showing the depth of your knowledge and that is why we are focusing on deep dives now. So how to handle the case when user searches for example gifts for 10 years old? You can see I've searched gifts for 10 years olds and I'm getting multiple sponsored products. So the first approach is you know we can add a tags field to the database. For example, you know if it's a comic book product type you know someone is creating an ad for that. This is the product product type is comic book. We can add tags in our database like gifts for 10year-old or children's gift etc. And you know when the ad entry is added to the database we know that this lambda will process and add to the cache based upon the score. And this will add you know in the redes cache and there will be three you know sorted sets. For example for comic book I have you know these many you know ads you know 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 93 gifts for 10 year old we are having again same entries right and children gift also all the three same entries. If someone searches you know gifts for 10 years old I can just look into the cache you know hey if there's a entry for this just get me that list and return it. Now this approach is good but it has it has several limits right for example you cannot predict what the user will be searching for. They can search for example gifts for maybe 11 years old or give me a gift for my child. Anything can be like that right? So you cannot predict what user can do in their query. So in light of this um you know this approach is not very solid and also it is causing you know repeated data entries which can cause sync issues and redundant data is there and will lead to more memory consumption and duplication. So we have another approach to you know we can add you know a machine learning based some context service whenever the user searches a keyword the context service will return some relevant product types right for example you know if someone search gifts for 10 years old you know this query will be passed context service it will return some keywords for example stationary comic book or a toy etc and based upon that it will just search the search service will just search in the cache for those product types get top 10 for you know three product types for example comic book, stationary and toy and we'll sort the overall results in memory and we'll return the response to the user. So this way it's more extensible it's better you know you don't have to rely on u you know what user is going to search and uh no data replication or more memory consumption etc. So our next deep dive is how to handle the case when there are no results for the product for example pencil. Now if I if I go to google.com and I search pencil if you see there is no sponsored products returned right so we'll keep it simple just return no results as is how to handle a case to ensure new seller ads are shown to the customer you know let's say I'm a seller new seller onboarding and I'm submitting a new sponsored ad product right for a product type which is quite popular and which people have already clicked and if I'm a new entry entry into the market you know Google will not show my product because my score has not been generated I don't have any score and u you know for this product type the sellers who have more score for their products will eventually you know be shown so it's more like a starvation problem right so how do I deal with such a case for any new seller ad provide a default score which is more than the current maximum score for the product type so that we give them a fair chance and this will ensure that new sellers or new ads are promoted and not being starved in our system and that is what you know we want to have because as a business we want different sellers to you ad get products in our system so that we can have sponsored ads and if they click on that if users click on that you know we get as Google as a business we get referral fees all right so next is how to handle and process millions of incoming clicks per minute or maybe 30 seconds so it's a million million of requests comingings coming to us and u if you think about you know the design you know when we get the clicks you know we're processing the click and just you know adding the score and updating the database. So we are making an IO call which is expensive and generally how cafe consumer works is you know it consumes a message it processes it then it consumes the next message processes it and it it works in a sequential way right. So if there are millions of clicks coming per minute we might have you know higher latency in processing them. So how do we make sure we process the clicks very fast also given that we are doing IO call to process each and every click or even in the batch way we are processing a batch then you know we we just update the database and then we uh you know process the next batch so it's all going in a sequential way how Kafka consumer works so the solution here is you know to have you know a load balancing a design you know let's say how Kafka works Kafka has several broker machines and let's say we have 10 partitions for click topic in Kafka and these partitions are P 0 to P9 or all 10 partitions. We can create multiple instances of our service which is clicks processor and let's call it click processor 1 you know 2 3 4 and five. This is just for demonstration purposes. It's extensible. You can create as many as you want. But think about like you know each cluster has one primary two secondaries. And if primary goes down then secondary becomes you know primary. You can have a zookeeper like system which is monitoring this. But overall the idea is that we load balance how many partitions are being consumed by a primary right so which means that if we do 2 is to1 again for demonstration we can have 3 is to1 1 is to1 right it's extensible system we are trying to build but for the example let's say we are doing 2 is to1 mapping which means two kafka partitions to one uh click processor instance mapping so p 0 p1 are being consumed by text processor one p2 p3 by 2 p4 p5 by click processor 3 and then P6 P7 by clicks processor 4 and P8 P9 by clicks processor 5. That way we are doing parallel processing. We are moving fast and within a partitions the messages are in order. So if our partition key is let's say based upon an ad product this means that for all the clicks happening for that ad it is coming in in order and we are processing in order. We are not doing out of the order processing within a partition. So that way you can scale your system and you can process you know the messages faster and you can enable parallel processing. So our next deep dive will be how to ensure correctness in processing the ad score. Let's talk about the regular flow you know in the click processor how it works as I said it click it consumes the clicks you know till the batch size or the time you know window is elapsed it does in memory you know score updates for the b for the different ads in that batch and then it will call the batch API of the database to update the scores of different ads and after it is done it will basically commit those messages in cafka you know what is the maximum offset so every message in cafka has an offset so if you commit that all the messages behind that offset or message id automatically gets removed from cafka. It means that they have been processed and they can be deleted. So this is the regular flow you know it it you know consumes the batch. It uh updates the scores for different ads in the batch and then after you know database is updated you know with the updated ad scores for different ads in the batch it will commit the offset in CFKA and Kafka will delete those messages and after you know some restart or failover happens you know we we can just process from the process the ads which are not processed in general. So the situation is you know let's say you know the click processor updates the ad scores in the database after processing the batch but it didn't commit the offset in cafka or the messages which it has processed it forgot or it missed telling to cfka that hey I processed these messages and the primary you know click processor crashes it can crash because of many reasons you know hardware software power networking etc. But let's say it was not able to commit. Now upon restart, click processor will again process the uncommitted messages. You know, thinking that it's not being processed and the ad scores will be incorrectly updated. In this case, you know, the scores, you know, for the ads which have been processed, you know, it will lead to doubling the score. Not doubling the entire score, but doubling uh you know the whatever number it had previously when it processed the batch and it can cause accuracy, correctness issues, you know, biasness in our system. So how do we handle such a case? So the solution here is to add you know a new field you know in the database called message offset for every ad and before processing you know the click event per ad the click processor will check if the message offset of the adclick event is greater than the message offset for that ad in the database. Now if it is the one which we are processing is greater than then sure we can process it because it's a new message but if it is less than or equal to what the offset what we have stored in the database it will ignore that click event because it's already been processed. So let's go over an example to make things you know clearer. So let's say we have you know this Kafka topic and we have you know several messages coming you know offset 1 2 3 4 5 6 and initially we have add ID 1 1 then 2 1 3 and 1. So after initial processing of this batch you know this will be the state of our ads table. Add id one the score is 20 because if you think about we have 1 2 3 4 we have four instances of ad one and plus five you know for each click event. So five multiplied by four is 20. Similarly add id 2 is offset three just one instance. So score is five. Add id three also has score of five. Now it has the maximum offset for add ID we have six add ID2 we have three and add id three we have five. So this is how you know database is updated and let's say you know the click processor didn't commit the offset in CFKA and click processor failed over or restart it then it will start to reprocess these messages. Now during the reprocessing of the messages you know it will ignore all the messages for add ID 1 because you know offset one is less than six. Similarly offset 2 4 and six is also less than or equal to six. We need an a message or a click event which is an offset more than the one which we have already processed for this ad. So using this technique you know we can make sure we have correctness in our system and we are ensuring that things are accurate. So uh we can have more deep dives as well you know for example how to handle huge right loads you know for a given product type. Let's say Apple launched a new iPhone and many sell sellers are trying to you know sell that iPhone or multiple users are clicking you know for that iPhone. How do we process you know huge right loads in our system? That is another deep dive you know we can consider but I'll leave you leave it up to you to think about a solution around it [music] final design and recap. So this is our final design basically. So again you know let's do a recap u you know the seller client you know who is submitting the new ad you know it will go through API gateway which is the does the rate limiting authentication authorization load balancing again we are processing it through cfka you can just remove cfka if you want and give a reasoning but as I said there's no right and wrong answer in the design it's more about the justification you give in this case I'm using cafka because I think like in processing that we might have to do many things for example compliance trust and safety there can be many business logics around it, you know, written in ads processor. So, I don't want to hold the TCP connection for long. I want to process async for better customer experience and low latency. And once it's processed, I'm creating a new ad in Dynamob. And I'm adding a new uh record for this ad. And this score will be the you know the maximum score current maximum score for that particular product type which can be got which can be got from the index. Cool. So next is uh you know the the client who is the user who is going to browser and searching an ad product or clicking an ad product. Let's say they click on one of the sponsored ad products it will go to click service. This click service will based upon the ad ID as partitioning key. It will add the cafka you know partitions it will be routed to the right partitions based upon the you know the hash algorithm that cafka uses based upon the partitioning key in this case which is the ad ID to handle the huge load. you know I've created several instances as we demonstrated earlier and the right primary you know will process the in order messages for that partition and do the batching based upon the time limit or number of messages in the batch for example if number of messages reached is you know 10,000 or 30 seconds have passed whichever is faster it will process that batch and aggregate the score per ad and make a one batch API call to update the record in Dynamob and this reduces the load on our data database and before that uh you know it can refer to the scoring rule system. There is a it can cache the scoring rules uh the click processor and with some TTL. Now once the record is added here you know new entry there will be a Dynamob streaming process through lambda and lambda will update the radius cache in this case and it will maintain a sorted set for each product type what are the top you know 25 or top end based upon the score for that product type and the user you know again searching on browser will go to search service first it will resolve you know the keyword from there it will for example for gifts for 10 years old or children's gift it will give some relevant product types and it will search the product types in cache If it is able to find that then well and good. If it is not able to find that it will refer to Dynamo. Let's say the cache crashes it's inmemory data. There's no data cache needs to build up. So in case of cash miss we will go to the index for this product type we'll get you know the based upon the score sorted scores we'll get top end or top 25 top 50 whatever we want to get and we can just give it to the client right and there might be some product types which are not commonly used or searched for. We don't want to put them in cash to save on cost. we can just go to Dynamob. The only trade-off is that we'll be able to search I mean slower than cache but it will be still faster because of the index availability. One thing I missed that in this before creating a new ad you know we need to get a pre-signed URL and first upload the image to S3 and then send the payload. The advantage here is that we are not send sending the whole image payload to ad service and then it is updating to S3. It's better that you know we just update it and pre-signed URLs are pretty secure. You can read about it online, right? It has some time limits for how long it's valid, what IP addresses can assess it. So, uh, you know, it's it's very safe and secure mechanism that AWS has provided. So, that's that's our design overall. [music] We also want to cover some breadth. For example, monitoring. It's good to talk about some technical and business metrics that, you know, we should care about in this uh system design. technical metrics like CPU utilization, memory or heap utilization, number of threads, number of pending messages in CFKA to see how we are processing the messages, end to-end processing latency, ads creation, click event processing, you know, cash hit percentage for that search, some business metrics like number of clicks per ad, search latency, customerf facing, seller ad creation, customerf facing latency, customer reported incidents, some qualitative feedback from the customer using the sponsored ad products, etc. testing. You can do unit testing with more than 90% line and branch coverage, integration testing, performance testing, scale testing, alpha beta testing. For deployments, you know, you can dial up, you know, based upon the customers, assuming it's a brand new system, you can start with 1%, you know, get some feedback, observe the metrics, right? And then dial it up slowly to 5%, 10%, 25%, 50, 70, and 100% which with proper soak period across the dialups. If time permits you can also talk about how you can be cost friendly or frugal how to handle the security in the system. So these are some breath you know topics which you can talk about you know with your interviewer [music] with that also I want to cover you know how our staff plus people calibrated for system design interviews. So you need to lead and drive the interview and yet be collaborative. A good thing here would be that in order to be collaborative, you can have some checkpoints. Hey, do you have any questions? By the way, I'm going to take a pause if you want to ask any question, right? But don't take too many pauses. You know, you might want to take two or three pauses to make sure that you are leaning towards the right direction and uh you're covering the topics your interviewer cares about. The solution should be good and mature. A system design question can have several solutions, right? But for staff or staff plus roles, you need to make sure your solution which you are proposing is good, mature, extensible. Third is you know again depth is very important when it comes to staff or staff plus ro tools. You need to identify at least two to three interesting areas of the problem and dive deep into them. And the next part is interviewer walks away with some new learnings or insights from you as a candidate. Time management is very important. You know there are many things you can be stuck on when you do the system design questions. So make sure you wisely use your time and uh time management is really critical. You need to showcase you know a good product mindset not just technical. I have seen many candidates who you know don't take product requirements seriously, don't demonstrate good product mindset and they don't go into a positive result. Basics should be really good. You know this is applicable to you know senior mid-level you know everyone and not just staff. For example, you need to do ambiguity resolution. Ask good clarifying questions. Iron out the requirements. The problem statement being given to you is deliberately put vague. They want to see how you're going to clarify the requirements. Determine the scope you know for the problem in hand. Back of the envelope calculations. As I said, scalability doesn't come for free. You need to make sure, you know, you need to design your system accordingly. For example, if I want to store, you know, 50 terabytes of data, I'm not going to store it in memory, right? So, you need to do these calculations very nicely in order to, you know, do the design correctly because based upon these data or back of the envelope calculations, your design will change significantly. Component responsibilities, make at least share four to five tradeoffs, right? In your design to show off your thought process. You need to have a working solution. demonstrate the breadth of your knowledge. You know, you can talk about monitoring, deployments, testing, security, cost, etc. And lastly, you should be very good in collaboration and communication. Your interviewer is trying to see whether you have good values or not and if they're comfortable working with you in the team setting. So, that was it from today. Um, you know, where we designed sponsored ads experience at Google. And with that, um, you know, thank you for listening to it. I hope you all enjoyed this session. If you want to do a mock interview with a coach who's worked at your target company, just go to I got an offer.com.