Uh, hey Johnny. How are you today?
>> Hello Andre. Yeah, I'm good. I hope you are good as well.
>> Yeah, I'm good. So, uh, today we're doing a behavioral mocker interview meta style. We'll go through few common questions and I share detailed feedback in the end. Uh, how do you feel about that?
>> Yeah, let's uh try that.
>> Okay, sounds good. Uh, let's start right away. The first question is a classic. Tell me about yourself and your journey in machine learning. So I'm Johnny and I started my career as a software engineer. It was like 11 years ago and uh then I quickly switched to machine learning uh which happened uh 3 years after I started my career because I found machine learning is more interesting uh area to be in. So I worked in some startups that uh nobody remembers the name and after that I joined meta I think five years ago as machine learning engineer. After that I switch I joined uh preIPO startup blockchain.com it's a crypto wallet company uh one of the biggest one of the oldest in the world uh and uh after that so I worked there as machine learning lead like in machine learning and data engineering uh I worked there for a couple of years and then uh I joined my current company British Petroleum one year and a half ago as a staff data scientist. Sounds sounds awesome. Thank you for sharing that. Okay, let's start with the first question. Um, tell me about the most technically challenging project that you you've led from start to finish.
>> Yeah, I think I will tell about the project that I did at my previous company blockchain.com. So, the project was for to build machine learning model to predict fraudulent transactions for our bank payments. So when I joined the team, we just compiled the team of data scientists and data engineers and data analysts to to tackle fraud and uh our fraud rates were really high. So fraud rate is the ratio between fraudulent transactions and all transactions and our ratio. So we had from our vendors from Westcart from Visa from AC Bank partner that we had we had uh certain threshold that this fraud fraud transactions ratio should be under and we had it uh above that for areas that I needed to improve and uh so I made a proposal after I on boarded I made the proposal to switch our existing uh vendor provided uh machine learning model to that we used to assess uh the transactions to build our in-house model. Uh my proposal was that we can build the model better, we can maintain it uh better and we will have more control of uh of how to use it. And uh so after we built that and after we roll it out, we managed to decrease our fraud rates and uh we managed to exit the visa fraud monitoring program and uh yes and our bank partners also happy that we decreased our fraud rates for them as well.
>> So let's come back a little and I have a question about like the moment when you made your proposal to start this project. How actually you did that? how you persuaded product managers to like believe in you that you will actually create the system from scratch that never existed in the company before and did you have any presentation or a road map?
>> Yeah, it's it's actually a good question because um in our company we didn't have the infrastructure to roll out the model to so we didn't have any MLOps and we didn't have any feature store. So uh and the model that we needed to have was real time model. So it was it needed to send to reply in real time and yeah we needed to build the infrastructure for that. So it was a challenge. Uh how I made the proposal I think I joined it. So I joined the company in April and I made my proposal I think in the middle of summer after I on boarded properly and understood what we had and um I think I started with uh evaluating the existing model because uh we we used to use the model but nobody evaluated the actual performance of the model in the company uh for several reasons because our data science department was small uh before I joined and so we didn't have dedicated data scientists like dedicated machine learning people to work with that uh we didn't have um so the the startup itself was smaller before before they started grow like when once they hire me so I mean we didn't have like just uh people to look after it and uh so I evaluated the performance of that model and I saw that uh the area under the curve is specific metric to measure the classification uh models in machine learning it was it wasn't that range it was like 65% which is not terrible but uh it's not you can fairly say that uh it's not the greatest model that can predict something. So uh I mean from just looking at that metric I assumed that uh the model I mean also we knew that model from our historical usage of the model that model had some um problems. So I kind of from from that I started research. So I I spent uh one or two weeks evaluating what we can build. I showed that um model that we can build with our data would be better. So my model was like having uh 85 or 89% uh this the same metric area under the curve which was like almost 25% 20% better. So I spoke about that with my my product manager. Obviously, they didn't care about this area under the curve metrics because it doesn't tell anything to business people. So then we switched to like uh the real number of uh front end transactions that we would catch if we had our model and that we were not catching with the current model. So that was that and then also I made these uh proposal request to my manager which was VP of data at that time and uh also I created this machine learning design document where I described the our like existing uh solution what we have and uh the new solution that I'm proposing how like more transactions we would be able to catch and uh how more money we would be able to earn. So I didn't I didn't have like any like formal presentation or formal meeting where like I persuaded like I mean I was selling this to my stakeholders but I had like um periodic one ones with my product manager where we apart from the model we also were describing or discussing our other initiatives and uh yeah I also had uh my design document where everyone looked at and had some feedback.
>> Um yeah sounds good. Thank you for sharing that. So I have a question like what happened after the project started? Tell me about the team and team work. So obviously you were like the lead engineer on the project how you were actually coordinating the work. How many engineers were involved? So not that many to be honest uh on so I was it was me who were involved in the project and I had like one data engineer that worked on um building the feature features for us uh offline features and I had machine learning engineer junior machine learning engineer who worked with me and helping me with deploying the model like preparing the code for like actual deployment part. So we had like three people working on that. If we do not take into account the we had a sister team that were building uh machine learning framework of Malops for us. We were like first adopters of their framework. If we go a bit in the future, we were the only ones who were using their their framework. But anyway, so we had this sister team that uh building the like deployment framework for us, MLOps framework. And uh they had like four people there. But uh I I wasn't that much involved in this in this part because uh we were just the users of the framework.
>> Okay, sounds good. Yeah. Um so I have a question about the sister team.
>> So obviously you were not like directly managing those people. Um you were not clo like working closely with them as I assume. How do you influence them to do something valuable for your project? Because obviously they they're probably working on their uh projects as well at the same time. So how do you like fight for their time? How do you
>> So that was that was a bit of a challenge because so they had their own backlog that they wanted to develop different features for and uh at that time they were also working on migrating our existing uh data lake to lakehouse. My data engineer uh was working closely with them. So it wasn't me like who was working closely with them but my data engineer. And uh if they had some uh for example they didn't have time to work on some feature that we needed my data engineer from my team kind of helped their team to deliver this feature for them that uh we required. So basically if we needed some feature and they didn't have time for that we just implemented that feature ourselves they didn't mind. So I mean some teams they can be very restrictive in terms of if you can push the code into their area but that team they were gladly uh not like that. So they didn't mind for us to put our code there and we had our quorum of data data teams together where we coordinated together our shared backlog. So because anyway if we are even if you are different teams we still need to deliver for the business. So we kind of negotiated uh the main things at least that should should be in a quarter should be delivered in this half and uh my model deployment wasn't put into their backlog like first thing when I proposed that but in the next quarter after I made the proposal they put it in the backlog and we worked on it.
>> Mhm. Sounds sounds good. Okay last question about uh on this story. I want to talk about the outcome. So you mentioned that you had this metric called um fraudulent rate and you you were trying to low uh lower that metric. Yeah. So were there any other metrics or ways to actually measure the success of a project?
>> Yeah. So I mean for for the CEO of the company the main concern was that we so the main concern was that we should be out of the this uh fraud monitoring program from our bank partner which we happily did. So uh that was the main thing and uh how the bank partner uh and our vendors like Visa and Mastercard how they evaluated our performance was the this the main metric was this man uh the ratio of fraudulent transactions. The one metric that we did care about which wasn't the concern of our partners but we cared about that was approval rate because we wanted to have um number of approved transactions still quite high because we didn't want to create the troubles for our users where you have like uh lots of rejections for your transactions and also I mean if you fight fraud and like reject everything obviously you'll have zero fraud but you'll not have any transactions right so yeah so we had this guadrial metric that we cared about uh for approval rate but the main metric was uh fraudulent uh ratio.
>> Um thanks for sharing that. Okay, let's switch gears. Uh next question is describe a time you defined the road map uh or some sort of long-term vision for a team or across multiple teams. example could be something at BP that when I joined BP uh so my team where I worked with it was um the data team that supported our business castal company it's like um uh arm of BP we were providers of all data related questions all data related requests and machine learning as well uh for for castrol and uh when I joined the team team was heavily uh third party uh workers not like uh full-time employees of BP. Historically team like was operating or under big influence of business. So nobody like concerned about were concerned about that much about like addressing tech debt doing things like uh from engineering perspective which is right but uh the main criteria was just to make business happy and uh how to make business happy is just to deliver everything fast and dirty right because nobody will care uh about your code base nobody will care about maintenance of your work because uh that is your problem and because we had like this shortterm contractors that worked on on the specific projects they they may I mean it's not I don't blame anyone but it's just because you know that you're working short term you like you'll deliver your project and then you are will be working in another company obviously you'll try to deliver as fast as you can because a you save money for the business as well because business doesn't pay more for you because you don't address certain technical debts so you deliver faster for the business which best better for the business from that perspective and also I mean it's not your problem because you wouldn't work on that project after some time. So yeah after I joined the team uh I like identified these issues and I made the proposal that we need to have like specific we need to first of all we can't maintain the big team without having tech leads in each squad because we had like team of like almost 100 people and uh everyone was managed by like business delivery leads so we didn't have so we had like six squads everyone was managed by business delivery like project manager so we didn't have like tech leads uh whether squad that people that were like concerned about technical debt and everything like better engineering initiatives and uh we also needed to hire more like full-time employees but that was uh so my proposal was that we need to address these issues and we need to do certain steps to uh achieve a better result which was uh like hire more like full-time employees uh assign like technical leads in each squad and train them uh support them to like be a vocal about like engineering problems about engineering vision of our solutions and uh start like compiling the backlog for uh better engineering initiatives that we can do and uh yeah so that was a big vision that I proposed I did I didn't do it like from the beginning I did it like in the after five or six months I was in a company and we started acting on that so we hired like 20 I think full-time employees at that time and uh uh we have tech listening squad we also assembled like specific team within our business department that uh is called now asset management team and that team is uh mainly focused on addressing our infrastructure uh data infrastructure and uh like code related uh initiatives so they're not working on business they're just supporting uh like improving our existing infrastructure so I mean this team we just set up like two months ago which so it was like a big thing for me because we I started doing that like one year ago. We are still uh like uh have a way to go but we are working there. We did code optimization from our cloud. We reduced our cloud costs and now significantly like 500,000 per year and uh yeah so we are doing a lot of good things now and yeah that was I think my story. Um that sounds like a huge project actually. Thank you for sharing that. So my question is um how do you actually manage this process? Who who who were like really managing it? Were you doing it like alone yourself on a high level or were there some other people
>> who were involved? That's actually a good question because uh our hierarchy of management at the company is a bit uh so first of all we had several reworks two reworks I think at that time and uh also my managers changed so um so we didn't have like clear hierarchy of who is managing board first when I joined we just had these six squads and I was some like person that's floating around in between them. It wasn't my direct report. So I couldn't say to people like we're doing that, we're doing that, we shouldn't be doing that that. So I I kind of needed to more like persuade people. So it was like a you know like power. So I just was going around like saying to people we need to do that. I think uh if we if we had a better like better infrastructure, we didn't have that we wouldn't have that problem. And I was like uh mentioning that like to my managers as well. And we have also we have we had two different management chains one from business one from technology which also like was a challenge because so we had like kind of kind of two uh report chains for our team. So yeah, it was uh it wasn't like I'm I'm directly managed the people and directly like ask people what to do certain changes but uh it was like speaking with my manager like convincing them speaking with these people uh convincing them and then slightly slowly changing things. Yeah, that sounds really impressive because you basically managed to transition the department and intro to like introduce tech leads and technical tasks without being a like a manager of those people by just using soft power and persuasion. Interesting. Let's move on. I actually want to ask you about conflicts. Um, yep. This is one of my favorite ones. uh please tell me about a time you faced a significant conflict or a disagreement with another tech lead maybe an engineer or product manager.
>> Uh I think I will tell about my situation that I had at my previous company blockchain.com. uh when I joined the company in my first several meetings I had uh my product manager who was my like partner was my peer and then I had uh the manager of that product manager who was like senior product manager who was also participating in our meetings uh and uh suggesting uh some initiatives that we should be doing and as as I said our main concern was like addressing this fraudulent transactions ratio and we had like certain problems there that we needed to And this senior product manager uh they proposed that um instead of uh directly like trying to find certain rules or building the model that I described uh we should be investing our time in building the platform where like people without technical expertise without knowledge of SQL because for that particular tasks you need to know SQL. So without knowing SQL they can go and like uh with drag and drop create certain rules that uh backwards that would do the some kind of a back test on our existing uh like transactions and would tell us that what of these transactions what ratio of the transactions we would uh be we would have for fraudulent transactions and how many of fraudulent transactions we would catch with that rule and how many good transactions we would block that rule. So they they proposed that we build this platform with UI and uh not non-technical people first of all uh product manager I I believe they can go and like with drag and drop create rules and um play around to propose certain rules for us uh that we can implement with a backend engineers with like our assisted team of backend engineers and put it in production and like with that fight fraud. So it was the same the goal was the same to fight fraud but not address it directly but through building that platform and my conflict was that I what I which I tried to explain is that we had um we didn't have like enormous team we had like five people in team everyone was having like immediate task that was affecting the fraud rate immediately so I had data data analysts that worked with our financial team that tried to find these rules like uh already. So I had a person who already was dedicated for that that the time was already dedicated for that to find these certain rules that will be put in production. So without like uh so we had a technical person who was working on that first of all and also we didn't have capacity to like invest into building that platform because it would be like three months of work for like three or four people at at at least and uh we had immediate problems with the with the fraud. So yeah, that was uh that was my conflict. I tried to explain that. Uh and then uh also what I what I proposed as a interim solution is that if they have any ideas about potential rules that could be created, they could explain to us like I mean just English what rules they want us to create and then we will just investigate that on their behalf with our data. So at first they didn't like that uh because it was kind of uh I think not um the thing that they used to have because I I mean I was a new joiner. We were like new new build team and uh he was a like senior product manager who was handling all of that before we kind of existed in the company. So that was I think the main reason why they had problems with me not accepting uh the priority. But then I think we negotiated and we came up we yeah so we agreed that we wouldn't build the platform but if any rules they can they can propose we will uh gladly like investigate them and put them in production. Yeah.
>> Okay. Sounds good. So let's now focus on this part that uh so you said that we negotiated. So I want to hear more about how it actually happened. So first of all who initiated this? Was it a meeting or was it an email discussion?
>> I mean we had a meeting where I mean first of how it started right so we had a like meeting with our product managers where the senior product manager proposed that we should be doing that. So I was first like expecting uh my immed like direct peer product managers to say that uh we don't have like capacity for that. what after they didn't do that I kind of started like speaking and saying that my team we do not have any people who could be dedicated for that uh and uh we don't have time for that basically we we have uh like u our immediate fires to handle then I mean that ended on on that on that note and then after that like async not not like with the broader forum but just oneonone in our DM as well uh we kind I clicked oneonone with this person. I explained that I mean these things that I said that if they have any proposal we're happy to like take that into investigation but building the platform itself will be like huge initiative and I'm not saying it's completely worthless but uh at that time we just don't have capacity for that. So I mean that was the idea. I mean we didn't have we didn't build the platform anyway but the way I described that was like a bit nicer. Yeah.
>> Okay sounds good. Uh yeah thank you for sharing that. Uh let's move on. um please tell me about a time a project didn't go as planned. So maybe there was some failure or some problem and how you've overcome it. Uh so we had a project at BP where we needed to predict um demand forecasting for our convenience stores and uh when I joined the team uh I mean so I was I have my team this team with Castrol it was like a spare pro spare project like separate project that was happening in parallel that uh uh I was asked to be involved. So I I jumped in when I realized that uh the team wasn't progressing very well. They were working on this project for 4 months when when I joined and uh everything that was done was just research. So they just did like lots of EDAs like describing uh the data, describing the data set, the problem uh etc etc but nothing was built and also the uh approach that they had for tackling the problem the machine learning model that they were building wasn't suited for the whole problem because uh the problem was that we need to predict [clears throat] the demand for our food products the products that we have at convenience stores. We had like 300 convenience stores in Australia. Each of convenience store, they have like up to several thousand um different uh products in them. But the approach that the team was following at that time was to build specific machine learning model per like store and SKU per product. So which was as you can imagine it's like number of machine learning models that they needed to build at the end was like 300 multiply by several thousand which would be like millions and uh it wasn't scalable. So yeah so several problems as I said like uh lots of time was invested in like investigation of data and uh the model itself wasn't scalable. When I once I joined the team I like I mean I justified all of that. I spoke about that with our business and also we didn't have uh another problem we didn't have product manager dedicated for that uh project as well. So uh I mean I so the main problem was uh that was the main problems once I joined and then I described uh the situation I like I created a document where I described all the situation and VP is a big organization so to make any change you need to have like several phases of approvals and I asked that we need to have like product manager dedicated for us. So we need to turn things around and for that we need like because we had only two data scientists assigned for the project that were doing this investigation and research but none of them worked on deployment of machine learning model none of them worked on like building the features for the machine learning model so they didn't have that experience at all so I asked for additional resources that we need like data engineer we need like engineer who would work on like productionize the model and we need a product manager so uh I got approval for all of that. So we kind of uh staffed the team with additional people and then I I think after three months we we made the pilot run for for the model. So we rolled it out for like 10 different sites and uh tested it out and uh obviously we had some challenges there as well like that not connected to this but at least we rolled it out and it's the project is still ongoing now as far as I know because I mean we had also I was like just spay involvement from me as I said so we had like dedicated subject scientists for that project now so they are working with on that project like fully at the moment as as far as I know and they are like progressing But at least we turned things around and we delivered some progress. [clears throat] We delivered some something uh totally.
>> Okay. Yeah, sounds good. Thank you for sharing that. So I'm actually interested in the thing that you mentioned in the end uh that you had some like issues uh with that model and I'm asking because that was the problem that happened after you joined. So it's sort of like you felt the responsibility and then you helped the team u somehow to solve this problem. So that's why I want to hear more about this particular case.
>> So what we had so after we rolled out the our pilot run what we identified is that our data quality that we assumed it was we we knew we knew that our data quality is not very good but we assumed it was it would be good enough. But once we started our pilot run uh at that specific number of food products that we picked and the sites that we picked that was the main thing because um our data quality overall was like average but for specific sites that we rolled it out it was very bad like uh for some of the sites site per sq combination we didn't have data at all like so if you don't have any data obviously you cannot predict anything. So uh that that was the problem that we identified and it was our mistake that we didn't spot it before our pilot run. We only identified that during pilot run. I mean in our defense we can say that uh business changed the sides without like uh taking into account our our suggestions because we suggested one uh p white sides one set of sites they picked another one and for that uh specific sites per sq we didn't have like data and uh we needed to change our model so it at least if we don't have any data it still produces some reasonable result uh based on the the same product sales in different stores, not not in this store, right? So we and that was the the thing that we needed to change. So we also so we were changing that during our pilot run and negotiating with the business explaining why we have such bad predictions on the flight. So that was the problem and the business obviously wasn't happy that um we didn't support it before but we kind of explain we tried to explain that uh our suggested sites were not picked and we are working with the with the other sites that we didn't anticipate and uh but still it was our mistake I mean uh completely was on our data science team that we we didn't take into account that and we didn't build our solution robust enough that we can still predict something meaningful while we don't have any data.
>> So my question here is was it like an urgent problem or not? Because we're talking about demand prediction for convenience stores and you mentioned that the data was bad. So how does it affect like sales or what was the problem? So was it urgent or
>> it was immediate problem because the way I mean [clears throat] the products that we rolled it out for was food products that we they bake within a day. So what how they used our predictions they needed to know how many food products they need to bake. So how many like different uh it's like all how is it called like frozen products that you bake bake within a day and then you sell.
>> Okay. Interesting. So that sounds like an urgent problem. So I want to hear what you did like your actions like step by by step after the moment you heard that this thing is is not working. Obviously once we figured out that we don't have uh so we have this problem that we have like source and squs specific SKUs that we have uh very like out of predictions that not like aligned uh at all and uh we so I mean what what I obviously did is like we built the in one or two days we rolled out the quick fix which was uh just predicting the average of the sales. So if we don't have anything in the meantime while we were developing the better machine learning approach we rolled out the like just quick average of last seven days so they have something to work with in the meantime. So we [clears throat] rolled it out and then uh I think in a week or in two weeks we we like kind of uh came up with a better approach. So as I said like take into account the sales in different different stores.
>> Yep. Sounds good. Sounds good. All right. Let's move on to the next one. Um so I want to hear more about your mentorship experience. So tell me about time you grew or mentored other engineers or researchers maybe machine learning engineers. So how do you approach it? Um generally
>> I'm not sure why I have general approach because um people tend to have different um personal situations. I can tell about some examples like my first thing first person that I mentored I worked in a startup before before Facebook I worked in a startup as a machine learning engineer I don't have any reports I didn't have any reports I was just machine learning engineer developing the the solution for it was like analyzing uh tweet tweets and trying to predict stock movement based on tweet tweets stock tweets there's a like social network stock tweets and we tried to predict stock movement based on the this tweet sentiment. So I was developing that solution. It was like very very like out of touch not uh affecting anything project that I was working with and I liked it very much but yeah doesn't matter. So I worked there and uh I had uh like junior junior engineer who wasn't machinering engineer he was uh I think backend engineer working at that team that expressed the desire to worked with me in my team like not my team I just was alone but to worked with me and with my project and I I I accepted that even knowing that they don't have any machine learning experience I was thinking that they could help me with like productionize the code to put that model into production and etc etc. So once they joined I was uh explaining to them what to do like so I'm basically like explaining machine learning uh also like in parallel because they didn't have any experience there and uh I think uh once uh I also was teaching them what to do I mean how to engineer how to tackle specific problems because I remember once sometimes this person once they had like once they struggled with something they just give up and said like, "Oh, I don't know how to do that. I don't know how to fix that." And I was uh like doing some kind of pair programming. Uh I was opening the code together and like going through the codebase and explaining, okay, I also don't know how to fix that. Let's let's try to do that together. Right? So we we'll like we have this problem. Let's try to figure out what causes this problem. Let's go over the codebase. So I was just explaining how to like navigate through the code different code base uh and uh because we used some library that had some problems that we so we fixed the library in the meantime and uh I was explaining that also I was teaching them yeah I mean coding standards that I found reasonable and uh etc etc and also only later I learned that person had serious problems in their previous team and they didn't want to work at that team they wanted to resign from the company but they like decided to try with me and I kind of returned them back into like loving software engineering etc etc and now this person works as senior software engineer at Facebook
>> okay cool thank you for sharing that let's move on to our last uh question so please tell me about something technical that you learned outside of your immediate work responsibilities
>> so I can't say in my last couple of years but before that all my career I think I was uh like doing some courses in parallel uh now I like don't have u maybe time for that my last big course that I did was with machine learning when I was when I worked at Facebook I bought like one year course that you have like participate 20 hours per week I think or something like that so I was doing it for 6 months and I I like I finished that project as that course it's it's called hard ML like hard machine learning so by the name you can assume that it was like hard course and uh yeah it was a like interesting course I learned different areas of machine learning that I didn't have exposure with my experience like uh recommendation systems I never worked with recommendations [clears throat] I learned that and like uplift modeling uh when you like need to predict the marketing campaign result so yeah I mean things that I learned there. And in machine learning there are like different areas. So you don't have you could not work on all of them but still you should expect that at some point in your business you can interact with them like it happened to me with these fraudulent transactions like with fraud data right so you need to be you need to know broad spectrum of uh applications of machine learning to like to be helpful for the business. So I I always tried to do that and uh actually I just realized I'm I'm doing the machine learning system design uh lecture course. So I'm like participating there at the moment. So how it's h it's happening on Saturdays and Sundays every weekend. Uh we have lectures and uh some [clears throat] yeah some outside lecture work. So yeah, I think it's just uh you need to be if you want to continue your career at uh software development and uh machine learning in particular, you need to be in a loop. You need to know what's happening especially with this like crazy development of AI, of Gen AI and like these new things that is happening every time. So we need to be we need to be in sync with the world.
>> Okay, awesome. That's a good moment to wrap up. So thank you for your time. Uh I really enjoyed our conversation. So please give me a few uh minutes to wrap up my feedback and I will present it to you. All right, let me give you my feedback. So um like generally generally you did really well. I really enjoyed uh our conversation, our mocha interview. I personally really enjoyed your stories. Like the only like one maybe general thing to improve is to include a little more actions in certain stories. not in all of them but in some stories uh you can include more action but let's go through the feedback so I divide it into four parts the first one is delivering impact second is commitment learning third resolving conflict and the last one is clear communication and each part each like focus area is divided into like a few things that are usually evaluated in like big tech companies and let's go one by one and discuss it so the first thing in delivering impact um the thing that is evaluated is that you balance action and analysis and I think you did that really well. So in your first story you mentioned that before starting executing you did research you build an MVP version showed it. So you made a presentation and you had a clear plan what to do next before taking action delivers high quality results. Yes. Um so you mentioned multiple successful highscale projects uh especially in BP and blockchain.com and also the one that was really huge that included department transition and also the thing that I want to highlight that you should definitely use or others who are watching this mock interview that you mentioned influencing others without being a direct manager to deliver and achieve results. So I think that's that's a really difficult thing to do and yeah this is a r rare quality that was really good. Next um rebounds quickly from failures. So initially you uh gave me a story when you joined the team after the problem or the issue happened and that was maybe that was a good story in general but not the perfect one to fit the criteria of like how do you rebound from failures. That's why I I asked a question about another story. The story about the machine learning model for convenience stores and that was a really good one. The only like small thing. So actually you covered everything especially your actions what you what you did urgently after the problem happened. I also really like the that you mentioned the quick fix and the long fix. That was really good. The only thing that can be improved is that you can mention that you communicated the problem to the stakeholders. So the stakeholder management just like uh communicating that the problem happened and what is your progress is important. So obviously I assume that you did that. It's just like it's important to show in a behavioral interview to to just show that you uh know how to work with stakeholders.
>> Mhm.
>> Accountability for results. Yes. So you literally mentioned multiple times you acknowledged mistakes. So you said oh we made a mistake and that opens the door to actually fix it. And that was really good. Let's move on to the second part which is commitment learning. And here you demonstrated self-awareness and interest in continued uh development. Yes. So you mentioned your ML courses, ML system design that you're doing supports the development of others. Yes. And here I want to highlight your junior developer mentorship story that was really good because you mentioned specific way how you did that. You mentioned pair programming to fix a problem and you also mentioned like motivating the person the person who actually initially wanted to give up but you sort of like motivated them to continue and that that was really like good uh hero story to use uh for an intro uh six feedback from others. Yes. So honestly, this wasn't like covered much in uh your stories. Maybe like Yeah, I would suggest to maybe include a little more about how you actively see feedback from others. [clears throat] Energized by working towards challenging goals. Yes, absolutely. So I think that was not like in a particular question. You showed it throughout the interview that you care about the work and the outcome, not about just the paycheck. Resolving conflict. Um so you facilitated open communication to resolve the conflict. Yes. So you mentioned one-on-one meeting that you organized it and uh adapts interpersonal style. Yes. Like the only like small thing that you can improve. Uh it is nice to mention that you acknowledged and listened and understood other person's opinion before before pushing them to take your side. Even though if you know that you're right, it's just like important to mention that because in some cases it can make a difference. And also like another thing that you mentioned like uh specifically said like my conflict it's just like small thing. I would suggest using uh terminology like our conflict because it just like highlights that you were thinking about the conflict more from your sides but it would be better to think about it through other person's lens as well.
>> The thing that you did really well that you seek uh common ground to file to build an agreement. So we mentioned that you discussed what to do next and you persuaded and uh built an agreement with that person to move forward. Um yeah, use conflicts as opportunities. Yes. And most importantly uses data and facts to drive resolution. And that was shown in your answer because you explained why it's impossible to build the system that uh that product manager was uh suggesting to build and you gave like a reasonable data points like uh your workload. Okay. So for clear communication here I don't have many like comments because you did really well. You clearly articulated your ideas and viewpoints uh both to me and in your stories. So generally you communicate openly with team and collaborators. Yes. Um yeah, you keep others informed within appropriate time frames uh time frames and also you demonstrated active listening uh throughout the interview. So very well done. That's a great interview. Thank you so much.
>> Yeah. Thank you for the feedback.
>> See you. Bye.
>> Later.