Okay. So, this is a mock interview for an engineering manager role at Uber. I'll be speaking with Ragu today um about um about himself and you know what who he is as an engineering manager, what's important to him and uh one or two projects that he's led and how he's how he approaches um managing and leading other engineers. So, thanks for joining Ragu. Uh really appreciate your time. Um why don't you go ahead and tell me about yourself? Uh hey Josh uh nice to meet you. Thanks for having me. Uh so yeah I'm uh I'm Ragu. I'm an engineering manager. Um I spent uh over 10 years uh as an engineering manager with uh big large companies. Um I have had the opportunity to you know start u and like be a founder member for large multiple engineering teams. I've uh grown uh global teams across uh London and India and uh uh yeah I've been very successful at uh hiring uh and growing teams and landing a lot of impact through uh delivering large bets uh for the organizations I worked with. Fantastic. Um tell me about a time that you resolved a conflict. Okay. Uh so this was uh a time when we were uh doing this project uh at Amazon where there were multiple u or entire Amazon was actually involved in something uh called red shift which is basically uh deprecating Oracle databases and moving to Amazon's internal text stack uh using either DynamoB or using u uh the relational uh database service. Um and obviously all teams were frantically trying to get to their uh goals of being able to do this. Now, so one of the things which happened at the time was I we were we realized we were we had to make changes to one of our services. uh we almost had to rewrite it because the way it was implemented was uh if it was an Oracle database it was allowed to store some of the PII data which is the like the secure data uh but if we have to move out we would we would have had to build another solution now the main conflict there was that we realized very quickly that that's not even So or we shouldn't even be storing that. We were not the source of truth for that data and that data should reside in some other system. Uh now obviously when we approached that team that owned that data or should be owning that data they were challenged with their own uh timelines and they did not have the bandwidth to make these changes. So what uh uh we were uh we had a couple of meetings uh we did not uh end up with any solution. So one of the ways which I thought at the back back at the time is that the engineer who owned this project from my team was on a career path to the next level or was kind of ready to go to the next level and needed an opportunity to uh uh kind of showcase or demonstrate those next level behaviors. So I kind of created a plan where we would do some of the uh initial work uh which would just set a platform uh for moving this data into the uh upstream team and uh we will uh you know just store the metadata about that particular data and create this service endpoints for them to use later. uh we next went to them with this approach. Uh they still would have had to do a little bit of work. It wasn't going to be much for them. Uh which would kind of delay them in their own work and that uh was the way forward to kind of solve this situation. The engineer did the work uh you know it was a bit of a win-win for everyone. the uh manager of the other team decided to give a good FE feedback for the engineer on my team who got promoted and we all kind of were able to uh complete the project on time. That sounds like that was a difficult or challenging uh situation. Um what was your specific role in this in this situation? uh my specific role was uh working with the engineer from my team to come up with a solution uh for this pro problem. uh a there was or we had to make sure that we could not complete this project without moving out some of the PII data and if it had to go in and sit in some other team it the logical team or the logical owners for that data did not have the bandwidth. So I had to kind of mediate with the engineers and the engineering manager of that team uh along with the engineer on my team and come up with a solution that works for everyone. And then once we cross this uh obstacle uh and go live with the red shift project, we would then work with the upstream team again to make sure we have a different uh uh milestone where we migrate off that uh service completely and they are able to kind of stand up their service which would vendors the data. What would you say was the the impact of this project? Or maybe better said, what would happen if nothing were done? If you didn't didn't lead through this, uh I don't think that was an option. Uh because the other options were uh stay with Oracle, which was not an option. uh store continue storing the PII data which was again not an option because Dynamob does not allow secure or at least back then did not allow uh us to store that data uh securely and uh you know uh it had to uh be migrated uh off and the upstream team would have to build and launch a new service uh which was the right thing to do but we kind of just helped them to uh come up with a solution solution uh in the intermediate that would work where we stored an metadata. We temporarily created uh a service that would store the data on their side uh and we were the only client for that period and then they would kind of expand it to other uh clients. So what was the impact of the business by achieving this project? So the red shift project was a project that was came straight from uh the s team at Amazon which is like the uh very top senior leadership uh at Amazon. So it was uh again not uh negotiable in any way either in terms of the timelines or the solution. So if we hadn't done this uh the there was no material benefit to any of the business teams across Amazon uh for people doing this project but it had a much bigger impact uh with the fact that we would be saving probably hundreds of millions of dollars uh by using our own technology. So cost savings by using Amazon technology. Yeah. For storing this sensitive data. Got it. or at least disambiguating the sensitive data, it sounds like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Um, let's take a let's take a turn. Let's take a shift uh towards a slightly different topic. Um, what would you say is a product that you're most proud of? Product that I'm most proud of. Okay. Um so uh I can tell about uh an accounting close platform that uh I uh developed. I was one of the first uh and I'm proud of it for uh multiple reasons. A uh this was a ground new product uh groundup new product which uh was uh which became the central tool uh of choice uh for the company I was working in to uh complete all the financial close uh activity uh for that company. Uh B this was not only a groundup new product. Uh this was also a team that I developed uh basically hired and grew as part of uh this uh team that I started. So I started a new team. I hired a lot of good engineers uh who went on to do very successful things for uh the product as well as uh I was also uh I I was able to deprecate a lot of legacy systems. Uh I was able to uh stand up this tool to become the single unified tool for performing uh financial flows automation. So, okay. So, it was a groundup pro product and so what would you say was your um the highlight of that of that project for you? What made you the most proud? Uh the fact that it was a it was a big platform. There were four different modules in it and it was a huge product and at the same time uh it was very stable from its very go. uh we had only uh maybe 40 or 50 people who uh used the product at launch. It went on to have like more than 500 users within a year or two. And at the same time uh it was one of those rare products that never got any uh you know what we call severe incidents or high priority tasks that kind of blocked users. uh it was extremely stable in terms of quality. There were and that kind of led to a lot of adoption of the tool and we kept on adding a lot of big features and yet it always uh seemed to work uh scalably without uh uh you know going down or having any kind of uh product issues. That sounds interesting. Um tell me about um a decision or a trade-off you had to make in that in that project. Uh I think one of the decisions was uh once we started getting a lot of adoption um what I realized is uh one of the modules had a backend engine uh which uh we realized is not going to scale. Um now we had an option to go back to the users and say we need to kind of rebuild the internals of that engine to uh kind of make sure it scales for all the quick adoption that's happening from like few hundred uh cards we would be going to thousands of cards uh if in less than 6 months. So one of the decisions I took was uh we stopped uh a new feature that we were developing to re prioritize rebuilding this engine. Um and we did it in a way where we did not want the users to come back and do all these long UATs. We created a service that would compare the before and after in a very uh easy way for engineers to kind of just work with it. And we kind of created reporting that would go out and show that the new code did exactly what the new old code would have done except that it is now far more scalable. Uh so with that what happened is uh we were able to uh scale for the year end because the year end close is almost the most always the most critical for a company. uh and we went live with uh this uh new feature or uh sorry rewriting the uh engine and uh it scaled and we did not have any other problem. Now we did not have a new feature uh which came later in Q1 uh but that feature uh was not would not have soured the experience of uh year end close uh as such. Okay, thank you. Um, let's take another let's go in another direction. Sure. Um, appreciate you sharing these stories. I think those are great. Um, getting to know you a little better. Um, let's see. So, let's talk about technical debt. Okay. Um, you know, as a product team, technical debt is always a trade-off. Yep. Um, how do you what are your views on technical debt generally speaking? and maybe even tell me tell me about a time where you had to um work with some you know write down some technical debt but I'm curious to hear your general thoughts about technical debt. Sure. So I think I g just gave an example where I think we kind of built a system that did not have technical debt uh or which kind of you know did not ever lead to a situation with a tech debt. So that's the highlight of my career in terms of building that kind of a product. But I would also say that that's because I had uh a lot of uh experience getting hurt with technical debt in the past. Uh so there were a lot of lessons learned on you know what not to do which I think I was successful in this new uh project. But uh going back to your question uh Josh so uh I had teams uh that I have kind of joined or uh products that I have inherited that had lot of tech debt um and the things are uh or my observation is we always tend to either uh talk too much into the future uh that oh this is if we need to kind of fix this we probably need to rebuild the whole thing uh or we need to kind of have a two year engineering plan to kind of rewrite the product uh or something like that. But I can give some example where uh one of the teams that I was leading did have a lot of uh tech debt as such uh because it was written years ago when you know the team was much smaller the product was much smaller it wasn't processing the kind of billions of dollars that uh it was processing at that time uh so u there were few tiny steps that I think uh I had my team take on a continuous basis. Uh a just improve the overall instrumentation in the code and start gathering metrics. Uh so which means to say that you know do we even know what's working well and what's not. Uh and if something is not working well probably uh you know can we get get more insights on a week- toeek basis. So uh one or two of the sprints uh I had my team purely work on you know adding more instrumentation and kind of uh generating the metrics that would go into our alerting and monitoring tool uh and start looking at this in a on a more constant per week basis because if I had to go to my leadership and talk about the uh weekly operational metrics we did not even have enough of that. Uh so with that in mind, it was uh a steady progress made in terms of just collecting the metrics and reviewing them internally as a team every week uh when the on call would kind of uh hand off uh the uh operations to the next uh engineer. But one of the things we started seeing is there were a lot of things or lot of uh uh misconceptions we had about our own product. Uh we used to have a website. Uh and we thought that's where everyone comes and create these agreements. Uh but what we realized is more than 70% of the agreements in our system are created by an upstream team calling our uh APIs. Uh they never through the website. So editing and agreement is what was done mostly on our website never much of creation. Uh so we built all this uh kind of metrics continuously and it it led to something much more impactful. It it helped us to identify where even we should focus uh what are the things that we should uh invest on where uh if we need to kind of move say from batchbased system to event based system that gives us much more scalability. Uh which parts of which batch programs are really not scaling uh which programs take how long. Uh so as we kind of generated these metrics it kind of led to a very steady state about which uh things we could prioritize that slowly we could rewrite we could keep it in a shadow mode for a long enough time where uh it's just comparing the results and it's not uh you know trying to do anything in production immediately or you know just using uh web labs or AB testing where we would slowly dial up these things make sure it works and then comes back and in about one and a half to two years I think we were able to rewrite a lot of the stuff without feeling the pain of big bang launches so interesting yeah technical debt is uh I don't think there's a magic wand that will ever take away all the technical debt no it's always very step by step very uh gradual uh but if you keep doing it it it almost you know has this cascading impact where It would have created a lot of free bandwidth by fixing one small thing and then the cumulative effect is what I feel kind of lands up uh uh us at a stage where we are now ready for much bigger things. Yeah. I see it as an um similar to uh borrowing money as an investment in a business, right? Yep. You borrow to grow and then you have to pay it back. Yeah. Yeah. uh you mentioned uh it sounded like you mentioned a trade-off between batch and event processing. Was that a was that a call that you made and if so why did you make that call? What what was the what drove the decision? So I wouldn't say I made the decision. It was uh or I mean I I identified the need for that decision either. it was much more bottom up where one of the engineers uh actually was able to find out a lot of the problems we were having and engineers face the brunt of the operations that they are supporting right so which is where uh this was actually to the engineers credit that they brought this up uh they also worked on a technical design doc that uh they got it reviewed through a lot of very senior engineers in the organization and they went ahead and implemented it and that actually was a pretty good success. It wasn't again immediate. I would say it took several months uh as we did this but uh it was a multi-million dollar uh savings in revenue that uh or revenue that we otherwise were losing which we hadn't realized. uh and it was uh recovery of all those millions of dollars of recovery by just changing something to batch based to event based. Uh it was a way where uh you know it wasn't just the kind of methodology from batch to event. There were lot of other uh dashboards and a lot of other metrics that we generated. It it was a complete overhauling of how we process certain type of agreements. Uh which kind of led us to uh the all these discoveries about us losing so much of revenue. It was more of a refactoring then. It was more of a refactoring. It was Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yeah. That's a trying to I would say okay. How did you h I'll put this in the question. How did you handle balancing let's say new features or whole new products with the refactoring products happening likely I would imagine happening simultaneously. How did you handle that? So uh I think once we were able to establish how much revenue we are potentially losing through uh a non-scalable system uh it wasn't that difficult of a cell to just say that this needs refactoring. Uh so we had a monetary value attached to refactoring this. Uh so it wasn't it didn't look like a pure engineering project. there was a lot of interest in uh on our business teams as well and okay so uh in that sense uh and it kind of exceeded the expectations in terms of uh how much rec uh how much revenue we were otherwise losing uh is if it's like almost double digit uh million dollar uh revenue it's it's not trivial so the decision was an easyish one yeah it was yeah because uh I think and again the platform that we set with trying to generate a lot of metrics kind of enabled a lot of these kind of uh decisions where it was easy to sell that hey we are in a system if we if we had gone cribbing to our business saying hey our systems don't scale uh probably they wouldn't be as invested in it uh like it was our job to probably develop good systems uh but if because the cost of not having scalable systems led to what kind of problems is what I think uh these metrics enabled. Uh great that's thank you for that. It's interesting. Um let's take another turn a little more uh general question but I think for engineering manager this is this is important to understand. Tell me a little bit about your leadership style. So uh my leadership style is uh a lot more uh I would say u growth and mentoring focused uh so I am very invested in my team uh growth uh mentoring and empowering them. Uh and I'm generally able to grow my teams well is because I also like to have a good uh vision for the team. uh and kind of set ambitious goals and you know try to drive the big bets uh so to say uh now that doesn't mean that I don't uh care for the immediate goals or the short-term goals uh but generally speaking if these immediate term goals or the short-term goals can become building blocks to this long-term goals uh that's how I generally try to uh get uh the set or or structure my organizations around those kind of uh philosophies. I think I have been pretty successful in that in terms of growing a lot of people also uh getting a lot of the big things uh achieved. So bal excuse me balancing between short and long-term goals. How do you keep your team uh accountable to the goals that you set for them? So in terms of accounting uh I think each engineer uh has the kind of goals uh set uh for themselves. Uh and then there's constant feedback that I use uh with them. If I see them doing uh something that they shouldn't, I would, you know, make sure that they get that feedback uh during the one-on- ones and other places. uh there's generally a lot of the reporting uh that different engineers have for the different projects they own. uh I kind of review that and make sure that uh the weekly status reports and other mechanisms that we have in in play in terms of tracking projects those are done. U I also kind of am very passionate about uh operational excellence. uh I kind of always make sure that each engineer takes the responsibility of making sure that they have enough goals around uh operational excellence and they are kind of continuously improving our systems. They are not just doing the business projects and all that productivity whether it's in terms of their how many lines of code they shipped or how much code review and code review effectiveness they have had those are the things I uh track and you know if there is feedback needed uh I make sure that I don't wait for the end of the year uh to give them this feedback I make sure they get it uh as and when things happen so that they have a chance to course correct Yeah, sounds good. That sounds good. Um, what drew you to engineering management? Um, from my own experience, some engineers never want to touch management and want to be IC's or independent contributors and some move into the to the EM track. What brought you to the EM track? Uh I think I was a reluctant entry to uh engineering management. I would say uh it took me some time to uh like managing people. Uh my first uh few I would say at least months was more about uh because I was very good as an IC. I just thought that that would be a better way to just uh help more people. uh and kind of impart that knowledge and impart that skills that I had gained uh as an IC to be able to kind of uh spread to a much bigger team much more easily. That's how I started it. Uh but then I also learned over a period of time that engineering management is not like just technical knowledge. There's a lot more to it. Uh and some of those I learned over a period of time. I don't think I learned it in on day one or I knew what I was getting into on day one. Uh but I started enjoying it. Uh there there was a time when I also started managing managers. Uh but the more important thing was always about uh I still had that fundamental desire that I should grow people. Uh and that's kind of always kept me much more motivated. That's nice to hear. Yeah, it's a I'm sure it was a learning process to become the engineering manager you are. So, this takes me I think to our last question. Um, looking to the future, what are you looking for in your next role? So from the next role I think it's uh being able to solve complex and ambiguous problems uh and along the way uh you know mentor and empower my teams uh to solve these kind of problems and lend that uh experience of people management and uh you know having solved a lot of complex ambiguous problems just be able to uh use those skills and experience uh to grow more people. I would say Ragu, thank you uh for uh taking the time today. Um really enjoyed discussing your uh your projects with you and your leadership style. Um I think this is a good time to take a breath and reflect and then we can get into some interview feedback so you can perform perform at your best when the interview comes. Sure. Sounds good. Cool. Um, a lot of great things I'm noticing. Um, I I liked how you kept things brief. Um, and you know, you you got to the point. I think that's important. Um, you um you you didn't use a lot of jargon, right? I And I think that's really important. A lot of people use a lot of uh acronyms that go unexplained or a lot of industry jargon. And even when you're speaking to a hiring manager at another company, it's best to leave that out. And you did a great job doing that. So, keep doing that. Um, I I felt like your stories were constructed well in the in the STAR format, the situation, action, action, and result. Um, uh, I felt like, um, your personal edge and your differentiation was there. I think we could work on that a little bit more. I'll get into that in a bit. um your timing and your the like I said the length of your responses was good. You want to keep things to two to three minutes. Um and you know remember that you know keep doing that and remember that there's a lot of new information coming to the interviewer. Even if they're an experienced engineering manager or product manager or hiring manager whatever there's still a lot of new information coming. um not just the words said but the communication style and a whole bunch of things that that factor in. So I think keep keep doing that. Um some things to work on I would say lead with a headline. Okay. Right. So you know what was what do you I'm most proud of ABC project and I'm proud of it because of these three things. Right. lead lead with a an impactful headline and then you'll be able to back it up with, you know, more detail. Um, and that holds true for all the questions, you know, like what's your my leadership style is this or um, you know, we had a um a conflict and this was the conflict, right? Got it. Um, it's kind of like reading the newspaper. You read the headlines or reading the the the Apple news. Okay, newspaper is fine. Nobody reads newspapers anymore, but reading the Apple news, right? I read Apple News, I read the headlines, and if I'm interested, I dig in, right? So I can get the gist of it from the top. So I think that will really help drive home what you want the interviewer to remember about you. And that's another key thing is keep in mind what you want the hiring manager, HR, recruiter, whomever you're speaking with, the team, what do what's one thing you want them to remember? But hopefully it's more than one, but what's one thing, right, that you want them to remember about you? What's going to make you stand out? Because honestly, a lot of projects sound similar, right? Yeah, a lot of them do. And the STAR framework or the S depending on who you ask, but the situation, task, action, result framework is very pervasive. So, we're all we're all structuring our answers that way. And that's fine. That's a good idea. Keep doing that. But what makes you stand out? What makes you different? Right? What's your personal edge? Okay. Um what do you want them to remember? Right? Leave them with like, okay, Ragu said this thing that really resonated with me, right? Um uh let's see what else can I offer here. Um one thing you can do for practice, let's get into some some things you can do for practice is write down your stories. Sure. Right. There's plenty of um uh prompts out there like the ones I gave today, right? Project you're proud of, your leadership style, conflict resolution. Um sometimes they ask how do you work with engineering, but that's more on the product management side. But write down your stories. Keep them at about 300 words, right? Okay. And your stories. Okay. Here's something you can take it to the next level. So write down your stories. read them back out loud and ask yourself, are these the tasks that I did? Is this a very tactical response or is it more a why it matters response? Right? Obviously, there has to be some right clearly has to be some detail like I worked at this company. I had this role. This is the thing we worked on. The tactical bit is important, but is it is that the bulk of the response, right? Yeah. or is the why it matters the bulk that's where the me where it becomes memorable in my opinion is you know why this matter this mattered for the business because engineers I'm just going to make this up right engineers were taking three three days to run unit testing which seems crazy but whatever it is like operationally the team was less efficient than I know that they could have been this was impacting our ability to deliver on new features and new products or to land a big customer, right, that sales was really pushing for or some other business impact or operational impact, right? The why it matters will be very very memorable in these behavioral stories. Um, and always include your your role. I will and say it very plainly. I was the manager leading the team on this project and I had seven people and d all the all the the basics, right? which I got I was able to get through your story. It wasn't completely missing, but make that dead clear. You know what I mean? Very clear. Um um so yeah, the why it matters. Um I think that's about it. I think that there's some a lot of good things to work, but again, write down your stories and say them out loud. These are pretty these are pretty typical um behavioral type questions. They want to it's the tell me about yourself isn't tell me about yourself directly. It's yeah tell me why I should consider and hire you for this role. How are you going to solve my problem for me as a director, a team lead, a VP or whatever. Um how are you going to you know perform as an independent manager and help a team maintain and retain a team right to not only be productive but also h excuse me happy right and reduce churn right sometimes you bring in a manager and churn happens we don't you know they're worried about things right they're worried about about team um morale and all that. And that's where the that's why they ask these tell me about yourself questions, these behaviorals. Um, so there's this h there's a hidden meaning beneath that kind of generic sounding um tell me about yourself. But yeah, I think that's that's about all the feedback I have. Sounds good. I think this is very valuable feedback, Josh. Thank you so much. So, thank you for your time today, Reggu. This was great. uh really great to learn all about you and your your um what you're looking for and your work history and the projects you've worked on, your leadership style. Uh so again, thank you for for meeting with me today. Really really appreciate it. Thank you for having me. [Music]